Digital branding is a brand management technique that uses a combination of internet branding and digital marketing ;online marketing to develop a brand over a range of digital venues, including internet-based relationships, [1] device-based applications [2] [3] or media content. [4] It has emerged strongly over the last decade along with its roots from direct marketing.
Let’s face it, getting new customers has become increasingly difficult with the amount of content, information, and options available to your target audience. Now, you must understand the traditional approach to marketing is no longer sufficient.
You need to understand how your digital brand is impacting the likelihood of your audience purchasing your products or services, joining your organization, or becoming a partner or sponsor.
That’s why digital branding is important to your business. Keep reading and you’ll understand how it works.
Your audience is being bombarded with advertising and marketing messages that inhibit your ability to foster a special connection. The same talent or expertise is offered all over the Internet but what separates you from the competition is your story and how it’s presented in the digital space.
Digital branding is about establishing your brand’s story and presence in the digital space. Digital branding is the key to establishing a meaningful connection with your target audience. It’s about using your unique proposition to differentiate yourself and your offerings from the competition.
Now let’s break each component down to familiar marketing terms.
Digital branding must be different than our traditional ideas of branding. A brand can’t just tell us what it represents and then expect us to believe it. A brand needs to live its values and then communicate them via digital branding.
When you are asked about your upbringing, what motivates you, or how you’ve achieved certain goals, you may find yourself telling a story . A story about the challenges faced and obstacles you’ve overcome. More importantly, how those challenges impact the offerings you provide, or product or services you’ve developed.
Understanding how the challenges you’ve faced relate to the wants and needs of your target audience is important. Content Marketing is best used for providing relevant content suited for the various stages of a user’s journey that convey how, through a strategic series of content, your product or service is a solution.
It is important to note, providing value beyond what you’re offering is the best way to begin building your identity. Re-enforcing your value proposition or why you are better than the competition is the best way to continue engaging with your target audience.
Now, let’s move on to how social media is used to build your digital identity.
Your social media engagements convey the voice of your brand. From your status updates to the way in which you respond to comments convey your brand’s voice. Your social media activity is a great awareness builder and can be used to shape your identity.
If you’re unsure how to begin, start with social listening to help inform your digital identity. Examine audience chatter to guide your digital identity. You don’t have to change your identity based on what your audience wants. You need to change the way in which you speak to your audience and your identity will be shaped by that experience.
Once you’ve established your identity, it’s time to focus on your visibility.
The second component of your digital brand is visibility. Consider this all the touchpoints at which your target audience is exposed to your brand in the digital space.
A critical part of your visibility is your audience’s search engine results. Being listed at the top of search engines will not only help increase your visibility but it conveys that you are aware of your target audience’s needs and understand their search behavior.
Search engine results also build credibility as many consumers believe if a brand is displayed in the first position in their search engine results, it must be very credible.
You can spend years building your credibility but it can take seconds to be ruined. It is important to actively build the feedback loop with your target audience to protect your creditability. A properly established digital brand can utilize all touchpoints to collect feedback which, in turn, will enhance credibility.
Digital branding is not personal branding. The impetus of personal branding is being known while for digital branding, it is conversions.
Below you will find a list of how digital branding affects various industries and occupations.
Authors – A digital brand will help you find a literary agent that’s looking for new talent. That agent is going to look at your digital brand to see how many books you may sell.
Attorney’s – As an Attorney with a great digital brand you are able to get more clients and leads as your digital presence is going to bring people who search for lawyers to your business.
Real Estate Agents – If you’re a real estate agent, you’re going to get more leads, have more reviews, work with new homeowners or people who are trying to buy investment properties and so on and so forth.
Consultants – If you are an expert in your field and you do not have a digital brand, you are not an expert (at least in the eyes of most consumers). People are going to engage with your brand whether you have an established brand or not. Take control of your digital brand and make it easy for people to interact with you and to build more credibility.
Business Executives – As a business executive, it’s best to separate yourself from other executives. Use your digital brand to display the value that you are going to bring to an organization.
Entertainers – As an entertainer, you can use your digital brand to bring more eyeballs, or more views to a production. If you want to build your online platform that surpasses your competition, you have to build that Digital Brand.
Everyone Else – Now ultimately, if you are in the business of offering a product or service, your digital brand is going to help guide your target audience through their decision-making process.
No matter what your industry or occupation digital branding applies to your unique situation. You want to make sure you have a better understanding of how digital branding can affect you and your business and how you can use it to market your talent, skill or expertise.
As an organization, digital branding puts you ahead of the curve.
Understanding how today’s technology comes together to develop remarkable experiences for your customers, clients, leads, patients, and consumers is the first step to building a robust digital brand. Pulling these technologies together to build relationships with your target audience is critical to your digital branding execution.
Since, today’s consumer utilizes digital platforms (i.e. online search, social media, mobile apps, etc.) to aid their purchasing decisions, establishing a robust digital brand will increase your customer acquisition, lead generation, content consumption, and brand awareness.
A great example that most of us have experienced is buying a car. During this process, you can do a lot of research to make an informed decision before speaking with the car dealership. When you decide to enter the building, you are now more informed and your perception of the brand will guide you through this process.
This is the reason why digital branding is so important for your business. Customers will be far more informed about your brand before patronizing your business. Make sure you focus on enhancing your digital brand presence so your customer will feel more comfortable doing business with you.
As a non-profit organization, your digital brand is critical to your funding, donations, and increased awareness of your cause. One way donors validate your efforts is reviewing your digital efforts. A great non-profit digital brand will convey the innovation, competency, and business acumen of the organization.
As a small business, much of your digital brand will be based on the efforts of your owner or CEO. A strong digital brand will help to differentiate your business and convey why you are unique. In a crowded marketplace, you must do everything you can to put your businesses in the best position to win.
Most small businesses do not have the marketing budgets to compete with Fortune 100 companies. Focusing on digital channels is significantly cheaper than traditional marketing channels. As a result, there is a greater need for small businesses to establish a stronger digital brand so they can effectively reach more customers.
Brand’s that convey a personality that is more human-like enhance their trust and authenticity. In traditional marketing, a brand’s personality is sculpted or projected upon consumers. In the digital space, that personality is conveyed through engagement, dialog, and presence and particular platforms. Remember, just showing up and participating in conversations is a statement within itself.
If your consumer wants to find you or check your references, your digital brand should immediately address these concerns.
It doesn’t matter if you are an individual looking to profit from your expertise or an organization looking to convert your audience, digital branding must be prioritized. Digital branding is a business’ identity, visibility, and credibility among consumers who discover, relate to, and interact with the business online.
Since, today’s consumer utilizes online platforms (i.e. online search, social media, mobile apps, etc.) to aid their purchasing decisions, establishing a robust digital brand will increase your customer acquisition, lead generation, content consumption, and brand awareness.
Digital Branding Institute is the premier resource for digital branding insights and education.
A brand without a digital presence is like a car without tires. It’s not going to get anywhere fast. Though old-fashioned, “analog” branding hasn’t quite gone the way of horse and buggy, businesses today need a diversified array of digital branding tools to cement their real-world presence.
Branding is the creative, strategic process of telling potential customers what your company is all about: who you are, what you care about, why they should work with you and what they can expect from you. After you’ve started a business or created your first product, building a brand identity should be your number one priority.
Branding distills everything about what you do and how you do it into a singular, memorable essence that people will remember and continuously associate with your company. Think of the McDonald’s golden arches or the multicolor rings on the Olympics insignia. Even a simple symbol or image can convey meaningful associations that resonate the world over.
These three B’s all have to work together. You don’t have a real brand without a brand identity, and you’ll never have a brand until you start branding.
Knowing and defining exactly who you are is the first step in creating a meaningful brand.
Your company’s online presence is the premiere mode by which most potential customers will learn about and interact with your brand. Digital branding let’s you zero-in on your audience by targeting specific customer groups through the online platforms they use most frequently: Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and more.
There are tertiary benefits to digital branding too, like the potential to “go viral” or reach a mass audience in a short period of time at little to no cost.
A logo is the single image a customer should associate first-and-foremost with your brand. Think Disney and you see mouse ears. Think Apple and you instantly conjure an illuminated fruit.
Take a look at logos in your industry to see what your competitors are doing. And don’t forget about color theory: The right logo color can make you stand out and set the mood. This color scheme should be standard across your branding materials.
Brand messaging is what your company says and how you say it. If I’m opening a breakfast joint with the best blueberry pancakes in town, you best be sure I’m mentioning that in my brand message. The message should reflect what your company does and believes, and speak succinctly to your customers’ immediate needs and desires.
Your tone of voice should also align with your company and the services it offers. Selling lip gloss? Keep things playful and fashionable. Selling medical equipment? Tone things down and be professional. Always do your best to focus on positivity and solutions rather than pain points.
Be sure that your brand message speaks to an online audience. In a nutshell: If your brand is on the internet, it should act like the internet does. The internet has its own unique modes of communication (e.g. memes, GIFs, slang) that your company should employ on social media when appropriate.
For example, on #InternationalDogDay FedEx posted a photo of mail carriers posing with pups, a playful way to engage on the internet while subverting the trope of mailman vs. dog. Bonus point: They even used an emoji.
It was a perfect example of online engagement with intention and meaning.
Facebook, Twitter, Snapchat: almost everyone, including your 85-year-old grandma, has some sort of social media presence. If your customers are there, your brand should be too.
Tailor every post to the platform on which it appears. Snapchat content tends to be fun, lively and targeted toward a younger crowd. Instagram posts are image-driven and designed to drive likes and comments. Twitter works in real-time and responds to current events and news. Facebook is a little bit of everything with an emphasis on behind-the-scenes content about how your brand works.
With all the flashy tools out there to market your brand digitally, it’s easier to forget about good ol’ fashioned email. Online mailers are an easy way to reach out to customers, especially those who don’t use social media.
Before you send a mass email, clearly identify what you hope to achieve with it: Boosted engagement? Nurturing existing relationships? Announcing a new product? Your goal should drive everything from the subject line to your image selection.
Target your emails to specific customer segments and write them in a lively, engaged tone that fits your brand. Include photos, videos and useful information that seeks to not only sell your products, but actively engage customers in your brand’s lifestyle.
Carefully schedule out mass emails. Sending too many back-to-back often results in a first-class ticket to the junk mail pile.
For help designing your email, check out our essential email design tips .
These days, it’s not enough to simply advertise your product. To create a loyal, returning customer base, engagement is paramount. That’s where content marketing comes in. Think of it as the human side of your brand. Where digital marketing emphasizes sales, content marketing focuses on engagement through photos, videos, Spotify playlists and blog posts (like the one you’re reading right now!).
Influencer marketing is a form of marketing that uses people with large social media followings to post about your brand. Rather than marketing directly to a group of consumers, you put your brand message in the hands of a social media star who will spread the word for you. According to one study, more than 80 percent of global marketers launched influencer campaigns in 2015.
There are some pitfalls to avoid. The influencers you select should align with the lifestyle your brand touts. You don’t want to hire a fitness influencer to sell your brownie mix. Because influencers are human, they might share views that don’t match up with your brand ethos, which could tarnish the reputations of both parties. So choose carefully, and clearly define acceptable ways to talk about your product.
You can search for influencers directly on social media platforms, or use influencer marketing platforms (such as Upfluence, Tribe Group or Famebit) to identify social media stars best suited to your needs.
Digital branding isn’t just about selling your wares, but developing a passionate, loyal customer base that not only buys your products, but believes in them. Bottom line: Keep things fresh, authentic and truthful. The possibilities for digital branding for your company online are as vast and expansive as the internet itself.
Designers, check out these contests so you can start building your career.
Today, brands do not need intermediaries in order to have a direct interaction with customers.  The means of message deliveries are being democratized for the first time in history.
You're reading Entrepreneur India, an international franchise of Entrepreneur Media.
Shubho Sengupta, an independent digital brand consultant who has previously worked with organisations like Ogilvy and Coca-Cola and whose current focus is to get a healthcare start-up off the ground, explains why digital branding is the new marketing mantra and throws light on the digital marketing scenario in India.
Sengupta calls digital branding a boon for the smaller brands as it is an economic mode to tap the expanding customer base. “The fledgling businesses, which cannot afford TV or print — the efficacy of which are also being questioned — can shape up their brand image on digital platforms. It is time that the small industries, which nonetheless play an important role in the overall economic growth, go for hyper local digital branding. Tier II-III cities have their own dynamics and are sceptical about changes. It’s time for them to modify, adopt and fit into the new equation. Brands catering to small towns need to understand their customers’ behaviour and develop their brand accordingly,” he suggests.
Being a small business owner is not easy. As per the Bureau of Labour Statistics , around 50% of small businesses don’t last more than 5 years.
The reason behind this is the failure to adapt to new challenges, not understanding consumer demands, improper use of available funding and not investing intelligently in branding and advertising efforts.
Another survey reveals that around 70-80% of people research a company online before they visit the brick-and-mortar store to make a purchase. This means that you will miss around 70-80% of new customers if your business is not found online.
Hence, as a small business owner, it is extremely essential for you to understand the needs of your customers and potential customers so you can give them what they want. You need to invest intelligently in branding and advertising methods to make your business grow from zero to hero.
This article will show you how to get started on digital branding for your SMB.
Digital marketing makes use of digital branding because no business can succeed in this millennial-rich world by simply promoting their products. It is important to provide value to your customers as this is the only way to survive the competition.
In short, you must map a complete journey of the stages of purchase so that you are aware of your prospects’ needs and what they are going to do in the next stage.
A logo is a symbol that represents your business, so your customers should be able to easily identify your company by your logo. A good logo represents your brand’s mission and values.
Every business needs an influential brand message to maintain an edge over the competition. Sending out a clear and consistent message is what is required to get a solid brand message into the minds of your customers. This ultimately helps position a brand strongly in any niche.
Content marketing benefits every stage of the marketing funnel, from the initial awareness of your brand or product, to detailed consideration like comparison shopping, to eventual conversion. It helps businesses improve brand presence so that they get seen and it also helps to build trust.
Considering that 70% of customers prefer to learn about a business by reading an article or blog post, every small business owner needs to increase and improve their digital branding with consistent, quality content.
The above-listed platforms will allow you to reach more potential customers at a fixed low budget in order to slowly and gradually improve your sales.
Influencer marketing is the best way to expand your brand reputation. The concept is fairly simple.
A/B testing is extremely important because it helps to identify your best-performing channels or campaigns. You can then easily understand which campaigns are delivering the maximum ROI and optimize your other campaigns accordingly.
Digital branding is extremely essential for SMBs. Every business is trying hard to be visible and, more importantly, trustworthy in the eyes of consumers, so you need to exceed the expectations of your audience.
Joydeep Bhattacharya is a digital marketing evangelist and author of the popular SEO blog SEOsandwitch.com. He has been in the Internet marketing industry for the past eight years and has helped numerous brands improve their presence online, including SEMrush, Hubspot, Ahrefs and Wired. Find him on Twitter @seoforu.
Single Grain is a full-service digital marketing agency that helps great companies grow their revenues online.
How Hallam is helping clients to navigate the COVID-19 pandemic .
Below are some key placements that you should focus your efforts on, as they will set the tone for all other marketing channels.
If you need help with your Ecommerce don't hesitate to contact us.
No doubt, the future is Digital Marketing & Branding. People seriously need Digital Marketing Consultant.
The digital transformation that has reshaped industry after industry has come to professional services — profoundly impacting how a firm’s brand is shaped and communicated. Digital branding is here to stay.
Two recent studies from the Hinge Research Institute shed some light on this important question. They investigate how professional services buyers’ behavior has changed and what strategies are driving exceptional growth in today’s professional services firms. Together these studies demonstrate the central role of a firm’s digital brand throughout the buying process.
How does a busy executive investigate these topics? It usually starts with a simple Google search. But if you aren’t writing on the topics that your prospective clients are searching for — and optimizing your content to appear in their search results — you are invisible to a significant portion of your market. And you aren’t building an online reputation as an authority in your area of expertise.
Now, if during the Google research phase your content helped these executives understand and diagnose their issue, your firm will make it onto that list. You will have established credibility — and will be perceived as an authority on the very problem they have.
Evaluating Service Providers. What role does your digital brand play in the final selection process? As it turns out, it’s pretty important.
For starters, 87% of buyers have ruled out a firm before even talking with them. Ouch! So if you are counting on your charm and sales skills to carry the day, you may be in for a big letdown.
Your digital brand impacts your business development process in many ways, and it is a critical factor in driving or limiting growth. A similar case can be made for its impact on talent acquisition .
Your digital brand and your offline (or traditional) brand are not two different things. Rather, they are components of a unified whole — at least they should be. They are simply two different ways to communicate your reputation and tell your story.
That means the process you would use to brand your firm applies to both components. But it’s not quite that simple. Many firms have neglected or under-resourced their digital branding initiatives. This puts them in a position of having to synchronize their digital strategy with their offline branding and accelerate digital brand building.
Here’s how to get your digital brand strategy up to today’s standards.
Knowing your specific business goals will help you set priorities and make the best use of your limited resources. Once you have your end objectives in mind, you can determine which metrics to watch so you have the intel to make course corrections along the way.
For example, if your top goal is to drive new business, you’ll want to monitor the number of new leads you receive and how many proposals you win. If talent acquisition is your goal, you will want to track how many qualified candidates you get.
Differentiators and market positioning are central to a strong brand. At this step, you are trying to ensure that both your digital and traditional brand are in synch. It may seem obvious that they should be aligned, yet at many firms they have drifted apart, sometimes to an alarming degree.
As with any marketing activities, tracking and adjusting will improve the effectiveness and efficiency of your marketing. Since digital branding is easier to track and control, it is arguably easier to improve than tradition brand building activities. This has certainly been my personal experience.
Hinge specializes in all aspects of the branding and brand building for professional services firms. Hinge’s Branding Program can help your firm stand out from the competition and build a distinctive brand that drives sustained growth.
"Digital channels and assets are used to communicate a brand’s positioning (or purpose) as part of multichannel brand communication or engagement programmes".
So let’s rename ‘digital branding’ ‘digital communication’ and consider its role in the context of the business strategy and brand planning.
This new guide by Debbie Inglis offers a detailed, 7 steps strategy to enhancing digital brands, aimed at FMCG brands or those who need to understand core branding concepts.
These steps in a marketing planning way will typically be visited iteratively. Now let’s look at each of these steps in more detail.
The reach of TV means this will remain the main way brand marketers communicate with their audience. Digital channels offer ways to connect with target consumers and leverage their goodwill. Positive brand experiences will help build the brand’s equity.
Here are some great examples of where brands have put these brand-building principles into practice.
Digital programmes can amplify the offer by communicating the additional benefits available. The consumer goods brand Nike offers Nike+ Connect with a chip embedded in shoes that provide a record of activity and performance.
FMCG brand owners may also learn from high street brands such as Subway, which supports its brand offer with a reward/loyalty scheme.
An example of a great brand-building platform is the Cow & Gate Baby Club .
A good example here is the Red Bull Stratos programme including the space jump, an adrenaline-fuelled event for adventure seekers plus live streaming and this interactive digital console.
The refrain in many businesses is about putting the customer or consumer at the centre of everything you do. New buying behaviours, channels and technologies provide more ways of delivering engaging, consumer-centered brand experiences. Use the right segmentation to communicate with your target consumer to build brand value and loyalty, putting the customer at the centre of everything you do.
In summary, success in digital will comprise participating in a wide range of online activities integrated with offline brand events . An integrated approach is key rather than seeing digital as tactical, experimental, a way of providing great content and an easy way of measuring effectiveness. The overall aim should be to deliver an authentic and consistent total brand experience that is aligned with the brand’s strategy, positioning and purpose.
Start your Digital Marketing Plan today with our Free membership.
How companies communicate with customers has always been important, and the introduction of new technologies only makes the process more complex The pace of innovation continues to drive new options for reaching customers, and savvy business leaders know that to thrive …..
The promise of omnichannel was that people would connect to a brand digitally or physically and then feel continuity in each subsequent interaction. For the most part, omnichannel hasn’t delivered that If you want to understand how omnichannel marketing fails, …..
This post will be especially useful to you if you’re not sure as to where to start or what are the benefits entailed by branding actions. It will provide you with ideas that you can put into practice as soon as you finish reading it.
Digital branding consists of the actions that are carried out aimed at building a brand in digital media . Marketing pursues that needs are met through products or services. Branding, on the other hand, goes further than this: it’s about creating brands that connect with their audience and convey a series of values.
Nonetheless, branding is not something new. The concept of digital branding has been born simply because the areas in which branding can be applied have expanded with today’s widespread use of the internet, social media, mobile apps , etc. Hence, a brand’s positioning strategies are currently virtually obliged to go omnichannel and have a unique approach.
Branding is about creating brands that connect with their audience and convey a series of values.
People don’t fall in love with your products; they fall in love with the brand behind them and what it stands for .
When it comes to digital branding, it makes no sense to copy what your rivals are doing. You have to find the aspects that make you different and give them a boost to make your brand be the best possible version of itself .
This will allow you to go beyond empathy and interaction and listen directly to what the user has to say . You will now know exactly what is it that your customers want, so make use of proximity to improve your products or services.
It’s, therefore, a service that’s especially popular with professionals related to art and creativity : photographers, illustrators, video creators, etc.
T-Mobile is a mobile phone company that has deftly managed to distance itself from the typical image projected by this kind of companies . And it has done so by aiming its message at a younger, urban audience that doesn’t want to attach itself to a traditional company.
Client Heartbeat makes customer service easier for any company by enabling satisfaction surveys to be carried out in a customised way.
By opening the way for a more customisable survey creation process, Client Heartbeat makes it possible for you to obtain more data − data that will allow for making better business decisions.
What do you think of the previous examples? If you want your brand to make an impression and create campaigns with an impact, allow yourself to be inspired by the digital branding actions of large companies and then tailor them to your audience.
With a of a far reaching network of content publishers, Digital Branding is capable of spreading your message to a wide audience, while using proprietary profiling and analytics software to target your needs.
Every business, from the smallest start-up to the largest multinational, has to provide its customers with a seamless experience across every digital, social, mobile and experiential touchpoint.
ICR’s award-winning Digital Branding practice specializes in creating the brand infrastructures and compelling visual, verbal and video content you need to succeed in this brave new digitally-driven world.
That was then. This is now. Approximately 70 percent of accounting firm selections are made using digital channels. The world has definitely gone digital, and if you’re not prepared to keep pace, you’ll be left in the dust.
3. Once you’ve aligned your goals and established your target audience, it’s crucial to synchronize your differentiators and brand positioning . What are those? Your brand’s positioning sets your firm apart from the competition, while your differentiators are the unique features and benefits that define your firm. This step is key because if your digital positioning and differentiators don’t align with the rest of your brand, you’ll waste valuable time and money in unfocused and unproductive efforts to promote your firm. For example, if your firm is very traditional but your digital brand is informal and playful, you’ve got a big problem.
5. You’re almost there. Now it’s time to synchronize your content and brand strategies to prove your marketing claims are true and demonstrable. If you make a claim about your firm, your marketing content needs to back up that claim. For example, if you want to establish thought leadership around a specific topic, make sure you have valuable, relevant content to demonstrate your expertise. The goal is consistency in approach, competency and messaging — no matter where a prospect interacts with your brand.
There you have it. The six steps to creating an effective, efficient digital branding strategy. So what are you waiting for? The longer you wait, the greater the risk that competitors with a digital branding strategy already in place will grab your rightful market share while you continue to delay. So let’s get started.
Digital branding is a brand management technique that uses a combination of internet branding and digital marketing to develop a brand over a range of digital venues, including internet-based relationships, device-based applications or media content.
Businesses should be blogging… If you’ve ever worked with or even had a conversation with a digital marketing company, then odds are you know the importance of content in digital marketing . The problem is, so many businesses (like social media) simply create content because they feel like they should, rather than with an actual plan and strategy in place. Whether it’s writing content for social media promotion or in an attempt to gain readers through SEO in a Google search, your content must always take into consideration the digital goals and brand of your business.
From remarketing and pay-per-click ads with Google, to carousel image ads in Facebook, there’s an abundance of opportunity to pay to get in front of your audience. Paid advertising is another crucial element to digital branding and is one of the only ways to guarantee you get in front of your audience. While it comes at a price, it’s one of the quickest ways to get your brand and message in front of the people that you want.
Born from discontent with big agency level digital branding and marketing, The Brandsmen aim to develop, manage, and evaluate digital branding strategies for our clients. If you’d like to learn more about digital branding trends, our philosophy, or for a free online brand audit of how your business currently performs online, please contact a Brandsmen today .
Everybody has heard that first impressions last a lifetime, and the simple fact is that in the modern age, a brand’s opportunity to make a good first impression is happening in the digital sphere.
This is because Americans spend more than 12 hours each day interacting with media devices, including television, radio, internet, desktop and laptop computers, and connected devices. Put another way, people today spend more than half their waking lives on digital channels and immersed in technology.
As a result, a brand that doesn’t have a digital presence has a near-zero chance of locating new prospects and engaging audiences because they aren't looking in the right place.
Imagine, for example, that you called a friend and left a voice message without realizing you had dialed the wrong number. Your friend would never get the message because it’s not his or her voicemail. Trying to connect with modern consumers without having a digital presence and strong digital brand is similar because you're not going to where your prospects are.
Beyond the fact that consumers spend an extraordinary amount of time with digital devices, they're also using them at an unprecedented rate to engage with brands they support. In the days before digital, a brand that wanted to connect with prospects would put an ad in the paper or invest in a billboard advertisement. But these days, customers use digital media to actively seek out brands, and this has shifted the control from the brand to the consumer.
As such, today’s consumers expect brands to have a digital presence, and nearly 30% prefer to communicate with brands via digital channels . Therefore, by cultivating a digital brand through a digital-first approach, you ensure your brand will be visible when prospects go looking and guarantee you don’t miss opportunities to engage and delight your audience.
Another reason it’s essential to have a digital-first approach to branding is that consumers expect brands to be responsive on digital platforms. In fact, 60% consider it a bad customer experience if they don’t get a response after reaching out to a brand on a social network, and 84% expect a response within 24 hours . Furthermore, if customers are using social platforms like Facebook to reach out to you for satisfaction or resolution with a problem and you don’t respond quickly, half will never do business with you again.
In order to present a consistent image that’s in line with your goals, it’s important to have a digital-first approach that focuses on crystallizing your brand and taking advantage of digital openings to enhance the customer experience.
If your audience spends time in any of these digital spaces, then it’s crucial to have a presence there. Otherwise, your just making way for the competition.
Aside from being present where your prospects are, another reason it’s important to focus on digital-first is because digital prioritizes targeted marketing in a way that traditional marketing doesn’t.
By contrast, a company today can segment their email list and create 100 different versions of the same marketing email in order to personalize content, offers, wording, images, and more based on factors like demographics, buyer’s journey stage, purchasing history, etc.
Targeted emails are far more effective because today’s consumers expect brands to personalize marketing messages. When you approach your marketing and brand from a digital perspective, it puts the focus on targeted messages.
Another benefit of adopting a digital-first approach to branding is that it makes you more flexible, which is integral in a world where technology and consumer behavior change at a dizzying pace.
Branding has been a crucial part of marketing since at least the 1950s, but the art has changed a great deal since those early Mad Men days. Today’s consumers spend their time with different media and on different channels than in the past, and companies must respond by following their audiences to these new platforms. In order to remain visible and relevant in a connected world where people spend more than half their days interacting with digital devices, brands must adopt a digital-first approach to building and managing their modern identities.
Along with helping you connect with customers on their level, digital-first branding will also help you provide a better customer experience, facilitate meaningful interactions, ensure your marketing messages are highly targeted and help you stay flexible in an ever-changing digital world.
Digital Brand Templates help you create more online content at record speed while sticking to your design principles—ensuring consistency and faster time to market.
Define elements and rules that control the way designs are edited so they can be created for different campaigns, markets, and channels.
Assign templates to specific campaigns and channels for simple filtering, so the right templates can always be found.
Establish brand fonts and colors and limit elements from editing like logos and image options per template.
With simple and fast approvals, you can determine approvers for each template, ensuring everything stays on-brand.
Using designers’ favorite tools, you can turn Photoshop and Sketch files into editable brand templates to be used over and over again.
Create on-brand ads, banners, and social imagery for all digital channels quickly; no design skills needed.
Employees and external parties can create marketing materials and adapt them to local teams, giving designers more time for real creative work.
Make sure the production process of new collateral is as efficient as possible and there’s minimal risk of bottlenecks, like waiting for designers.
Save time, money and resources by bringing more of the content creation process in-house and re-use approved collateral again and again.
Train your employees in the most in-demand topics, with edX for Business.
Digital technology has rapidly evolved in the last decade, and so too has the way people communicate. Businesses can no longer rely solely on traditional business models to build brand awareness.
This course will teach you about this shift and how it has altered the way brands communicate with their audiences. You will learn about the challenges of managing a digital brand and how rich and compelling content, combined with digital distribution, are integral to brand engagement.
This course is part of the CurtinX MicroMasters Credential in Marketing in a Digital World that is specifically designed to teach the critical skills needed to be successful in this exciting field. In order to qualify for the MicroMasters Credential you will need to earn a Verified Certificate in each of the five courses.
                be able to register for this course: Iran, Cuba and the Crimea region of Ukraine.
Train your employees in the most in-demand topics, with edX for Business.
Faris Yakob is an award winning strategist, creative director, writer, public speaker and self-proclaimed geek.
How to deploy finite assets, budget, behavior & brand, to achieve predetermined business objectives, w/ digital platforms & customers.
Strategy shouldn’t be fragmented into endless fractal versions of itself. All strategy is holistic, the direction of the whole towards the objectives of the whole.
Brand strategy, then, is a subset of strategy already, which takes business strategy and looks at how to best leverage the key intangible asset of the company – its brand.
So, with that many players, maybe it’s more like World of Warcraft than chess, more like running a restaurant than making a pizza, and more like Meccano than a Rubik’s cube.
It’s changing everyday. New platforms appear at the speed of Moore’s Law. Keeping up is part of the fun. So you have to keep learning, be willing to change your mind, experiment with each new platform as it emerges.
I’ve seen some crazy ones. Creative concepts mocked up that have flash banners and homepage takeover on Facebook. Ideas sold in to clients that are technically impossible (I call this “selling pictures of time machines”). People accustomed to working in traditional advertising have learned to assume that anything is possible if you can get enough money, because anything is possible in a film with enough budget. That’s simply not the case with technology. You can draw a flux capacitor, but you can’t execute it, no matter the budget.
Another mishap stems from the media creative fracture. People concerned with content and creative paying no mind to how it will get into the world and vice versa.
Some of the core books would be about digital culture and the new understanding of human behavior.
Most importantly, live online. Experiment, write, create – get used to how attention flows online, how people behave, how you build value for communities.
Oh and when applying for any kind of digital job, don’t forget to include URLs on the resume to point out where you live online.
A B2B marketing department has a wide range of written collateral stored in-house, ranging from copy drafts of blogs to ...
As part of their B2B digital marketing content strategy, marketers rely on CTA (or Call To Action) buttons as a quick ...
A B2B marketing department has a wide range of written collateral stored in-house, ranging from copy drafts of blogs to ...
As part of their B2B digital marketing content strategy, marketers rely on CTA (or Call To Action) buttons as a quick ...
Is it important to brand your business? What’s your digital brand worth? It can be worth a lot. You can measure its impact in reduced marketing costs and increased revenues for your small business.
But if you’re not executing that brand consistently, branding leads to confusion. You miss opportunities. Customer acquisition costs skyrocket. All the while, you continue to try branding the wrong way, costing you more.
Brand your business for success with a digital marketing strategy. Increase visibility and engagement across marketing channels. Convert those interactors into customers through effective branding.
Let’s review the numbers that prove brand is so important and break branding through digital marketing down into 9 basic steps.
Branding is anything that helps your target customers instantly recognize your company.
The more consistent you are with these basic branding components the more likely someone is to recognize your brand. A brand isn’t who you are as a company. It’s not who you strive to be. It’s how people perceive you as a company now.
You can be the most honest, high quality, customer-focused company out there. If people don’t see you this way, you need to work on your brand.
That’s branding 101. Business leaders have long known that branding is the key to success in any industry.
But the Internet blew branding wide open. It gives you the ability to brand your business in ways that customers not only respond to, but they prefer digital branding . It better aligns with how people make buying decisions in a modern age.
Why should someone hire your HVAC company to repair their air conditioner this summer? They could hire companies A, B or C who do the same thing? You may even be competing with company D that helps the person do the repair themselves.
They choose you because of the feeling that you build up around a brand. If your brand is built on honesty, people feel this when they see things that remind them of your brand. This feeling compels buying decisions.
If you don’t have a brand, they feel nothing. You might entice them with a one-off discount. People may make occasional impulse buys. But they feel no connection that drives them to schedule an appointment.
The only reason they would come back is if you gave them another discount. You can’t grow a business like that.
A Harvard study found that 64% of people name “shared values” as the main reason they follow a brand. They trust that the brand provides them with accurate information and follows through on what they say.
53.9% of people don’t trust commercials, infomercials or ads from a brand they don’t know. You can run ads all day. But if people don’t trust, they don’t buy. 78% of people say that they trust companies that build their brand on providing relevant, custom content.
Branding increases company visibility online by over 400%. That translates to more traffic to your physical store. Convert it to sales.
On average, a brand increases revenues by 23%. Digital marketing costs go down as revenues go up when you brand your business .
It’s worth asking. Maybe you already have a brand behind your business.
95% of businesses say they have a branding strategy. But research shows that only about 25% are consistently executing their brand strategy. Only 60% of the content produced by these businesses even attempt to conform to any kind of branding standard.
Nearly half of their marketing efforts are completely “free-style”. Let’s try this. Oh, that looks like a good idea. You know the drill.
71% of people say they feel confused when a brand is inconsistent. That’s not a feeling you need associated with your brand. Brand your business for success online. Here’s how to set up a solid branding foundation with digital marketing.
These are those evergreen goals that don’t change. Build your brand strategy around them.
If your goals are different, consider what they are as the first step to brand your business for success.
One of your branding goals is to brand your business in a way that your target customers love. You need to know who they are to do this.
Use real customer data whenever possible to create these. If you haven’t written this out and created personas, do this first to brand your business in a more consistent way.
The higher your rank, the closer you appear to the top of page 1.
92% of organic search clicks happen on page 1. Around 1/3 go to the top spot.
The more often people see your brand in various places, the more likely you are to generate interest and earn clicks on your brand.
That’s how to create a growth cycle through branding. More people recognize your brand because you’re visible. Your brand becomes more visible when Google sees that people like your brand. The cycle continues and expands. Increased revenues result.
For SEO, brand your business in the eyes of customers first. Then apply strategies that demonstrate to search engines like Google that you’re an authoritative site worthy of a top spot.
Do you have a written branding style guide to refer back to? If not, create one immediately. You need a document to align your digital branding strategies.
On the Internet, it takes 7-13 touches with your company before a person becomes a customer. During these touches, the customer is checking you out. They want to see if you share their values as a business.
If a person doesn’t know it’s you because you’re not following a style guide, you’ve just missed an opportunity for a touch point.
As you execute your branding strategies, return to this document. Stick with it. Update it if you determine that something works better. But don’t haphazardly stray from it.
One of the top things that people can say about a brand is that they listen. You pay attention to what people are saying about you online. You always work to make things right when something goes wrong.
In addition to comments and reviews, listen through analytical tools. Gain insight through Google Analytics and more advanced paid software.
As you listen to your customers, you’ll gain insight into how you can further develop your brand to improve how they perceive you.
No matter what type of content you’re creating, it will follow the style guide you’ve created.
You may find yourself distributing content in places that limit font styles or other branded elements. Compensate by including other style guide elements that help people quickly identify your brand when they see it.
Facebook is most effective for B2C marketing. That means you’re selling products or services directly to the consumer.
That’s as opposed to B2B marketing where you’re marketing to 2 or more people who are making buying decisions for their company.
For Facebook, you need a business page that represents your brand. Consider your style guide when choosing backgrounds and images. Your “about” and other content should reflect your brand image.
Build your brand on Facebook by posting content that earns likes and shares. If you’re sharing curated content, that content should have a clear objective that furthers your brand image.
Have a personality. People need a reason to follow you on Facebook. This is part of how you relate to customers.
Your profile page is your business page. Just like Facebook, make sure your page reflects your brand visually as much as possible.
Choose that Twitter handle carefully. Even if you change your name on the page, this handle will follow you as part of your brand. Make it memorable and easily associated with your brand. If your brand name is short and not taken, you can use it. If this isn’t an option or it’s hard to read, shorten it.
Author and Entrepreneur Rand Fishkin combined his unique first and last name to develop a short, unique and memorable handle.
If your content is click-worthy, all of this will translate to traffic back to your site.
Build your B2B brand on LinkedIn. People spend time on LinkedIn for networking and to stay up-to-date on the latest industry trends. They share news articles and industry tips. They engage in peer-to-peer discussions about what’s going on in their industry.
Build a company page and develop networking groups for the top industries you sell to. Become a source of the latest news and tips in that industry. Share your latest custom content. In moderation, curate and share impactful content from industry influencers.
Your goal for branding on LinkedIn is to start and nurture conversations among members of your group. Earning company follows, likes and shares of your content strengthens the brand presence.
Similar to Facebook, people on LinkedIn don’t like to have their feeds overwhelmed. Post only the highest quality content. Studies show the ideal posting frequency is once per day. If you’re managing several groups, this may be a post in each group.
Instagram is a very visual site. The profiles that get the most attention inspire people with a single color palette. A cohesive color pattern becomes associated with your brand.
Check out this sleek professional profile from YouTube celebrity MeghanRienks.
Here’s Lauren Conrad’s Page with a more classic, pastel look.
You can have a lot of different colors and still have a consistent look. Check out this page from blogger Sugar & Cloth.
Are you struggling to create a consistent look on Instagram? It may be because you don’t know the secret.
The visual consistency on many of these pages is achieved by using filters and subtly manipulating colors. You can use Photoshop or other paid tools.
Canva is a free online design creation tool with paid add-ons. It allows you to manipulate photos in a professional way. It’s also great for creating infographics, flyers and other visual content. Once you get the hang of it, it’s very quick to manipulate photos.
But remember never to manipulate a photo in a way that could be perceived as deceitful.
Further brand how your page looks by grouping photos by color or theme. Take a look at this page from Raspbehrriies.
As a person scrolls down this page, it’s very clear when the grouping changes. It creates tremendous visual interest.
The recommended number of posts for Instagram a day are 1-2. Those posts should not only add visual interest. They should somehow showcase what you do so that people click your bio link to learn more.
Canva, the program discussed earlier, also has a free thumbnail maker.
Spend some time crafting your video descriptions. Use a variety of searchable keywords. This will help more people find your videos.
Post consistency is extremely important. If you upload several videos and then disappear for a while, people lose interest. Instead, spread it out. It’s best to create several videos at once. Then schedule them out. Set realistic goals for yourself in terms of frequency. Videos take more time to produce. It’s better to keep quality up and publish less frequently.
Now that you’ve built a brand, it’s time to leverage that brand to get the greatest return on your paid advertising budget. Because you have a brand that people recognize, people not only know who you are. They feel something when they see your brand.
If you’ve worked hard to create that “good” feeling through branding, then more people will click and convert.
Even when you post a text ad on Ads, the language you use reminds people of your brand.
Organizations worldwide are reacting to the pandemic by offering free online learning resources. Here’s a full list.
Digital technology has rapidly evolved in the last decade, and so too has the way people communicate. Businesses can no longer rely solely on traditional business models to build brand awareness.
This course will teach you about this shift and how it has altered the way brands communicate with their audiences. You will learn about the challenges of managing a digital brand and how rich and compelling content, combined with digital distribution, are integral to brand engagement.
This course is part of the CurtinX MicroMasters Credential in Marketing in a Digital World that is specifically designed to teach the critical skills needed to be successful in this exciting field. In order to qualify for the MicroMasters Credential you will need to earn a Verified Certificate in each of the five courses.
Did you take this course? Share your experience with other students.
Class Central is a search engine and reviews site for free online courses popularly known as MOOCs or Massive Open Online Courses.
The new white paper from The Center for Digital Government discusses the importance of a digital government brand and how that helps agencies deliver a better customer experience.
It also details how government leaders can create a roadmap for digital transformation and a foundation for continuous innovation and improvements that will save time and money, utilize personnel and resources more efficiently, and deliver information and services with greater speed, agility, and reliability.
This summit is for entrepreneurs, businesses, and marketing managers who are looking to increase conversions, sales, and get more customers.
You need to be visible to get more customers, clients, and leads. On the second day, you will get actionable, step-by-step insights on increasing your brand visibility.
Brand credibility is a major factor when attempting to separate from the competition. On this day, you learn how to enhance your credibility and get an edge on the competition.
By the fourth day, you should have enhanced your identity, visibility, and credibility which can bring more traffic and attention to your brand. Now, it's time to focus on measurement and conversion.
➤ How to harness social media in a purposeful way, that grabs attention and sets your brand apart.
➤ How to become an undisputed authority & influencer in your niche so you can reach more & more people with your ideas.
➤ The best way to build trust with your audience (or even cold prospects) and position your business as the “go-to” brand in the industry.
➤ Discover the digital branding techniques that turn prospects into customers through education rather than coercion.
➤ Ordinarily, any face time with these big-name marketers would cost you a pretty penny, but during this summit, you'll literally an experience you won’t be able to get anywhere else as this information is usually segmented in different speeches and appearances.
At your home, office, or favorite armchair! You can watch the summit anywhere using your computer or mobile device.
I’m excited to announce our new online event: Digital Branding Summit. Hi! I’m Juntae DeLane, my mission is to help you grow your business, regardless of whether you are an advanced marketer or just starting out. I bring together the world’s most successful brand leaders and marketing experts, extract their top tactics and walk you through their processes step by step. No fluff, no gimmicks, no complicated procedures – just actionable strategies so you can implement them straight into your business and get results.
As a specialist in brand management, HEC Paris Professor Gachoucha Kretz has considerable insights to share on what makes digital branding distinct from more "traditional" approaches. In this interview, she outlines what digital branding really means, which brands are implementing it most effectively and the role modern technology plays in developing a successful strategy.
Thanks to Big Data, brands now have access to a far more detailed and accurate picture of their customers' needs. This means that communications can be tailored specifically to individual customers.
Companies that “display opportunistic behaviors without a good reason for doing so " or "imitate the competition without any rationale” run the risk of losing sight of their long-term goals. In a similar vein, companies should not “roll out tactics without having set up a clearly defined objective or an aligned strategy beforehand.” Being outcome-focused in this way can help a brand bolster its image while also attracting and converting new customers .
AI and machine learning allow us to use algorithms to acquire a better understanding of consumers based on their past behavior, states Professor Kretz. By capitalizing on AI, companies can identify which photos or words get the most clicks, which ad formats generate the most conversions and which brand keywords get the most searches.
Professor Kretz emphasizes that success can come in many forms . Chanel, for example, has succeeded in preserving its brand image. Gucci has developed brand equity and expanded e-commerce with sales increases. While Glossier has succeeded in developing a community and a better understanding of the needs and expectations of customers.
Creating a brand perception online takes into account all the possible digital platforms that your customers are actively on. The term ‘digital’ can be broken down to 4 main elements – Interactivity, Multichannel, Virility and Progressiveness. Each of these has its own benefit towards your brand. Let’s break it down.
Having your brand strongly vested in digital branding allows for a convergence of different platforms. Imagine your brand’s identity being unified across multiple online platforms (social media, email, online advertisements, chat applications) with different display mediums; all in unison, preaching one message yet customised to every customer.
Virality has come a long way and has been misused many times. Having your brand go viral is a post result instead of a pre-planned process. There are viral elements to potentially push your brand towards a further reach in a short period of time but there is no guarantee. The beauty of digital branding is that brands can easily pick up speed by customers’ engagement through shares, clicks, recommendations, feedbacks, dark social and so on.
The business outlook for 2020 is healthy, but isn’t overly promising, according to The Balance. For this reason alone, preparing your startup for success requires careful consideration. This is where compelling digital branding comes into play.
As a business owner, you must have heard a lot about digital marketing. Or you’re already reaping the benefits of incorporating it with your other marketing strategies. But what is digital branding? It might be confusing and you may think that they are the one and the same, but they’re not. Digital branding is defined as a management technique for your brand that uses a combination of both internet branding and digital marketing using a variety of digital platforms which include internet-based relationships, device-based software, or media content.
To understand this better, let’s look at what digital branding aims to achieve as opposed to digital marketing. While the objective of digital marketing is to attract the attention of prospects and convert them into customers, digital branding is all about putting emphasis on the fundamental values of your company.
Digital marketing is an excellent way to gain new customers, but digital branding goes beyond that. It builds long-lasting relationships and loyalty with your customers. Your branding is what stays in your customers’ minds once they purchase your product or use your service. And it’s what will come to their minds the next time they will have a need for your product or service again.
Digital branding is creating a lasting impression on your clients and customers. In this technologically advancing world, consumers are constantly bombarded with an immeasurable amount of content and information. It is quite difficult to make yourself stand out in a sea of competitors fiercely fighting for consumers’ attention.
Startup success doesn’t happen in an instant. As a matter of fact, 90% of startups fail in their first 120 days. But this shouldn’t prevent you from starting your own business. You can teach your business to succeed by letting it go through trials and errors. You can also learn your lessons from mistakes often committed by startup owners. All these take time.
One of the major reasons startups fail is because the product doesn’t fit a market. But if you have a product or service that disrupts your niche, it will still take time for you to reap success. Change takes a long time to come as you need to make people get used to your idea. Some may even resist change.
There are even a few big business owners who fall into the trap of staying in their comfort zones. This is because they are somewhat afraid that change will compromise their profits, albeit steady and not moving upwards. The bottom line is, a new product has to have the matrix adjust to its existence first before it gets totally embraced, you get the picture.
When you see a novelty product, you’d think that people would want a piece of it. After all, everyone wants something innovative, right? But at the end of the day, most consumers are still afraid of change, especially if it involves a lot of their money. Take Uber as an example, it may seem that they just popped out from nowhere and became an instant success, but when you take a closer look at them, they have been around and been through a lot.
Again, all the information points to one critical fact: online brand marketing is essential. To make it effective, it has to be remarkable. There isn’t a place or excuse for mediocre work. With these in mind, you’ll have a better understanding of why you should have a digital brand design that’s nothing short of fantastic.
As a startup, you need to get your digital branding planned carefully to ensure its success in the future. This is one of the first things you need to secure before going out and planning everything. Developing and establishing your brand identity through the internet is truly important as it sets you apart from the competition.
Platforms such as social media and online advertisements can spread your story and promote your brand instantly. It can reach people that companies of yore only dreamed about. When you start with digital branding early on in your startup’s existence, you’re slowly, but surely building trust with your customers and prospects. This gives you the advantage of connecting with them and gaining their trust and loyalty.
Even if your product has been replaced or discontinued, the right branding will make them remember you for a long time. This is where digital marketing and digital branding differs. Marketing is getting a person to buy you, while branding is getting all of them to remember you.
Marketing your brand has come a long way, and advertising isn’t enough anymore. You need to gain loyalty, build trust, and engage your customers if you want success for your business. The best way to do this is through content marketing . Videos, blog articles, images, and many others are your ticket to connecting with your customers.
Digital brand management is also about making your customers feel valued. Email marketing is a great way to connect with your previous customers and potential clients. It is one of the best ways to reach out to them and spread the word about your brand.
Creating a unique and consistent branding for your startup can help in sealing your corner in the digital selling space. A thoughtfully created digital branding can make a good buying experience for your customers and lead you towards the road to success.
Celeste Zosimo Cel is a traditional animator for over than 15 years. She is also a Fine Arts Graduate who majored in Advertising and is now a Content Writer.
gives teams the designs they need to scale their business.
An excellent graphic designer plays a crucial role in businesses. But as with many aspects of life, fakery is everywhere. Great graphic design can come at a cost, and with the proliferation of tutorials and user-friendly design software, the industry...
Digital branding is a term that’s used rather loosely to describe all the different ways in which a business draws in its customers online.  It includes a number of different aspects of marketing including SEO, online advertising, content marketing, social media, and influencer marketing. As a business, establishing a brand is key. In the era of online communications, it is just common sense that you must communicate your brand online to stay ahead of the competition.
While you may often hear the terms digital marketing and digital branding used interchangeably, they are quite different from one another.  Digital marketing is more about pushing a certain product or service based on how good it is, whereas digital branding is a little more subtle than that.  Instead of focusing on one particular product, digital branding highlights more the underlying values of the company.
Therefore, digital branding is a more long-term marketing strategy. It is all about building up a brand identity through the use of digital strategy and planning.  Strong digital brand strategy will result in effectively communicating your brand experience, so that your audience truly knows what you represent as a company.
Increase accountability by connecting and measuring your entire digital advertising chain’s ability to achieve brand building objectives. Robust, customizable benchmarks allow you to diagnose worldwide digital marketing efforts in a flash.
Granular, real-time brand lift metrics allow you to pinpoint exactly what’s working and what’s not, allowing you to proactively optimize performance while the campaign’s still in-flight and maximize your clients’ marketing investments.
By measuring brand lift, Nielsen Digital Brand Effect brings the same metrics used to measure and optimize advertising effectiveness in the offline world to the digital medium. Brand lift is the percentage increase in the primary objective of an advertising campaign, and is used by marketers to measure the extent to which their advertising has shifted consumer perception against awareness, attitudes, favorability, intent or preference.
Nielsen Digital Brand Effect uses the gold-standard in brand measurement methodology—a concurrent test / control methodology using a classic experimental design. Digital Brand Effect surveys are designed to maximize participation while minimizing bias. Surveys capture consumer sentiment to measure how the campaign performed against its primary marketing objective.
Digital marketing is all about finding new customers, sometimes for short-term gain. Many carpet cleaning companies, for instance, use digital marketing to promote a holiday carpet-cleaning sale. When the holiday is over, so is the sale, and so are the digital marketing efforts.
Digital branding, on the other hand, is long term. Digital branding is about establishing an online identity and cultivating positive feelings about a company. Instead of encouraging people to make a one-time purchase, digital branding encourages them to become loyal customers for years to come.
Your digital branding strategy should include the following four components.
Most cleaning contractors are B2B, business-to-business, or B2C, business-to-consumer. Sites such as Facebook can prove useful for accomplishing your digital branding goals in the consumer market.
But what if your company specializes in industrial cleaning, health care, or education? Social media sites such as LinkedIn, which is more B2B focused, may be a more productive choice. Knowing where your target customers spend their time online will help you to get the most out of your digital branding efforts.
No matter how focused your company is on digital branding, without effective search engine optimization (SEO), it may go nowhere. Work with an SEO company that effectively promotes both your company and your brand, successfully spreading your brand message all over the internet.
Monitor, detect, and enforce against the unauthorized use of your brand across all online channels.
Visit our Digital Brand Insider blog to stay up-to-date on the latest industry news.
A Digital Brand Activation is an online initiative that leverages audience microtargeting and intent-based strategy, to raise brand awareness and drive immediate leads or sales.
Innovative doesn’t mean high-risk. At IMA, our digital campaign methodology has been tested, modified, retested, and evolved over and over again. And, our ability to create digital experiences that move audiences and create buzz has earned the attention of industry peers and press alike.
But, while the concept opens wide the door to imaginative thinking, the vagueness of what one can be — and what a client can expect — can become its own trap. Beyond that, non-digital brand activations require a lot of time — not to mention a lot of money — to execute … and for all that investment, it can be hard to know what you’re getting back.
It’s what sets IMA apart: the alchemy of insight & creativity that yields astonishing results.
Despite our many difficulties, the COVID-19 crisis has also given us some really funny moments.
Have you visited our freshly updated Pricing Page? FOUR MODULES | SIMPLE PRICING.
Jonathan did an amazing job guiding me through a personal brand makeover for an industry conference. While I was reluctant at first, he quickly made a believer out of me and I could not be happier with the finsihed product. Jonathan spent time on both my personal and career goals and made the entire experience both easy and fun. I would highly recommend Jonathan and Successment for your digitial branding needs.
I have spoken with Jonathan Mentor on numerous occassions as a knowledgable source in the health insurance and employee benefits space for several industry focused publications. Many benefit advisers I am connected with have shared their affinity for Jonathan and recognize him as a thought leader in the market.
I reached out to Jonathan about a potential tech start-up that needed to be completed for a client who had recently relocated to the US from overseas. Due to graduate school, I was unable to take on the client at the time. The Successment Team not only exceeded the goals set by my client but helped them to exceed their initial revenue goals. I would recommend Successment for any tech start-up seeking a creative growth strategy.
Marketing software to increase traffic and leads. Free and premium plans.
Sales software for closing more deals, faster. Free and premium plans.
Software for providing first-class customer service. Free and premium plans.
Find HubSpot apps for the tools and software you use to run your business.
Hear from the businesses that use HubSpot to grow better every day.
Find training and consulting services to help you thrive with HubSpot.
Take courses on the latest business trends, taught by industry experts.
Find a partner in our global community of service providers who can help you grow.
Stay up to date with the latest marketing, sales, and service tips and news.
HubSpot also recommends this fundamental guide for getting started with digital marketing.
Marketing has always been about connecting with your audience in the right place and at the right time. Today, that means you need to meet them where they are already spending time: on the internet.
A seasoned inbound marketer might say inbound marketing and digital marketing are virtually the same thing, but there are some minor differences. And conversations with marketers and business owners in the U.S., U.K., Asia, Australia, and New Zealand, I've learned a lot about how those small differences are being observed across the world.
Long story short, to be competitive as a business owner, you'll need to embrace some aspects of digital marketing.
Because digital marketing has so many options and strategies associated with it, you can get creative and experiment with a variety of marketing tactics on a budget. With digital marketing, you can also use tools like analytics dashboards to monitor the success and ROI of your campaigns more than you could with a traditional promotional content -- such as a billboard or print ad.
The best digital marketers have a clear picture of how each digital marketing campaign supports their overarching goals. And depending on the goals of their marketing strategy, marketers can support a larger campaign through the free and paid channels at their disposal.
Here's a quick rundown of some of the most common digital marketing tactics and the channels involved in each one.
Want to learn and apply content marketing to your business? Check out HubSpot Academy's free content marketing training resource page .
On top of connecting social accounts for posting purposes, you can also integrate your social media inboxes into HubSpot, so you can get your direct messages in one place.
Native advertising refers to advertisements that are primarily content-led and featured on a platform alongside other, non-paid content. BuzzFeed-sponsored posts are a good example, but many people also consider social media advertising to be "native" -- Facebook advertising and Instagram advertising, for example.
With sponsored content, you as a brand pay another company or entity to create and promote content that discusses your brand or service in some way.
One popular type of sponsored content is influencer marketing. With this type of sponsored content, a brand sponsors an influencer in its industry to publish posts or videos related to the company on social media.
Another type of sponsored content could be a blog post or article that is written to highlight a topic, service, or brand.
To learn more about sponsored content, check out this blog post.
Digital marketing is carried out across many marketing roles today. In small companies, one generalist might own many of the digital marketing tactics described above at the same time. In larger companies, these tactics have multiple specialists that each focus on just one or two of the brand's digital channels.
The role of a social media manager is easy to infer from the title, but which social networks they manage for the company depends on the industry. Above all, social media managers establish a posting schedule for the company's written and visual content. This employee might also work with the content marketing specialist to develop a strategy for which content to post on which social network.
The marketing automation coordinator helps choose and manage the software that allows the whole marketing team to understand their customers' behavior and measure the growth of their business. Because many of the marketing operations described above might be executed separately from one another, it's important for there to be someone who can group these digital activities into individual campaigns and track each campaign's performance.
Ultimately, inbound marketing is a methodology that uses digital marketing assets to attract, engage, and delight customers online. Digital marketing, on the other hand, is simply an umbrella term to describe online marketing tactics of any kind, regardless of whether they're considered inbound or outbound.
For B2C companies, channels like Instagram and Pinterest can often be more valuable than business-focused platforms LinkedIn.
Unlike most offline marketing efforts, digital marketing allows marketers to see accurate results in real time. If you've ever put an advert in a newspaper, you'll know how difficult it is to estimate how many people actually flipped to that page and paid attention to your ad. There's no surefire way to know if that ad was responsible for any sales at all.
On the other hand, with digital marketing, you can measure the ROI of pretty much any aspect of your marketing efforts.
Imagine you've created a product brochure and posted it through people's letterboxes -- that brochure is a form of content, albeit offline. The problem is that you have no idea how many people opened your brochure or how many people threw it straight into the trash.
An effective digital marketing strategy combined with the right tools and technologies allows you to trace all of your sales back to a customer's first digital touchpoint with your business.
The kind of content you create depends on your audience's needs at different stages in the buyer's journey. You should start by creating buyer personas (use these free templates , or try makemypersona.com ) to identify what your audience's goals and challenges are in relation to your business. On a basic level, your online content should aim to help them meet these goals, and overcome their challenges.
If you spend time building comprehensive buyer personas to identify the needs of your audience, and you focus on creating quality online content to attract and convert them, then you're likely to see strong results within the first six months.
If paid advertising is part of your digital strategy, then the results come even quicker -- but it's recommended to focus on building your organic (or ‘free') reach using content, SEO, and social media for long-term, sustainable success.
As with anything, it really depends on what elements of digital marketing you're looking to add to your strategy.
With outbound techniques like online advertising and purchasing email lists, there is undoubtedly some expense. What it costs comes down to what kind of visibility you want to receive as a result of the advertising.
For example, to implement PPC using Google AdWords, you'll bid against other companies in your industry to appear at the top of Google's search results for keywords associated with your business. Depending on the competitiveness of the keyword, this can be reasonably affordable, or extremely expensive, which is why it's a good idea to focus building your organic reach, too.
Another key component of digital marketing is mobile marketing. In fact, smartphone usage as a whole accounts for 69% of time spent consuming digital media in the U.S., while desktop-based digital media consumption makes up less than half -- and the U.S. still isn't mobile's biggest fan compared to other countries.
There are lots of ways you can optimize your digital marketing assets for mobile users, and when implementing any digital marketing strategy , it's hugely important to consider how the experience will translate on mobile devices. By ensuring this is always front-of-mind, you'll be creating digital experiences that work for your audience, and consequently achieve the results you're hoping for.
If you're already doing digital marketing, it's likely that you're at least reaching some segments of your audience online. No doubt you can think of some areas of your strategy that could use a little improvement, though.
Digital branding refers exclusively to online brand messages. Audience engagement is the key to establishing a relevant brand in the digital world.
In an increasingly 'online world', brands must adapt their marketing tactics to the digital space.
Digital branding seeks to establish communication channels online in which both the brand and the target audience share and engage proactively via the internet.
Customer loyalty is strengthened when brands participate in the conversation.
Today, direct communication is paramount. Companies are increasingly acknowledging the many benefits to building a strong brand online. Customers appreciate brands that provide relevant feedback, respect people as individuals and provide up to date information.
Actively building customer relations online is fundamental to digital branding success.
Digital branding channels include blogs, forums, networking and bookmarking sites. Social media sites such as Facebook, Pinterest, Twitter, Youtube and Flickr should be strategically integrated into every business digital branding strategy.
Brand engagement via relevant information and interaction is the key. Consumers prefer to communicate with 'real people' behind the brand. Brand representatives must present a consistent brand message - as every communication is part of the whole.
Companies should carefully reflect on ways to ensure their brand is increasingly relevant and useful.  Information should be offered free of charge. This will further increase audience engagement and boost profitability long term.
Digital branding is a long term strategy that must be maintained on a daily basis.
Digital branding gives brands many opportunities to gain feedback directly from consumers. This is an affordable way for brands to monitor the success and relevancy of products and services. This is a great way for brands to continue to improve.
At the core of digital branding is the drive to better understand and communicate with the consumer. Brands should integrate creative ways to stimulate dialogue.
Negative comments and feedback are best addressed by direct and open means. A genuinely unsatisfied customer will always appreciate a fair response and offer of compensation.
Opportunities to grow branding online continue to expand. Brands should embrace the new paradigm and seek to serve their audience. A commitment to building a strong digital brand will return a positive result.
Saul Edmonds believes that every project begins with a story.
Saul and his team offer a one to one, tailored service - where he works with you closely to develop innovative solutions that will take your business to the next level. Find out how Saul can help you turn your ideas into reality.
Connect with Saul Edmonds on Linkedin here or Google+ here . Connect with Roundhouse on Google+ here .
Auditing your brand can reveal gaps in your story and lapses in your marketing. This guide will show you how to audit your agency’s digital brand and improve it.
Digital branding is one of those perpetually neglected parts of an agency. The agency might do exceptional branding work for its clients, but its own brand is often ignored.
But your digital brand is important. Even if you have a full pipeline of leads, you need a strong brand to complete your story. Ignore it and you’ll find that prospects struggle to spot you in a sea of me-too competitors.
So in this guide, I’ll show you how to audit and understand your agency’s digital brand. And once audited, how to transform it to be digital-ready.
Far too often, agencies position themselves in a way that neither helps them stand out, nor speaks to their target market. They use generic language and fluff-laden landing pages that don’t tell their story.
Because of its fragmented nature, it is easy for inconsistencies to creep into your digital brand. Some critical channels might go without updates. Some blog posts might not convey the values you believe in.
Before you know it, no one truly understands what you do or what you stand for.
A digital brand audit helps you zero-in on the “baseline” defaults for your brand. This can ensure that all your prospects get a consistent brand experience, regardless of what channels they use.
How you market yourself often springs from your brand. A brand perceived to be “fun and quirky” will have a different marketing approach than one seen as “sophisticated and traditional”.
In the next section, I’ll cover how to do a brand audit in detail.
The brand auditing process is an exercise in introspection. Sure, you’ll survey clients and analyze competitors, but it all starts with a deep understanding of your agency and its core values.
Let’s look at each of these steps in more detail below.
You’ll often find that your founding vision isn’t reflected in your reality. You might have started out as one type of agency, but have evolved into another.
Your goal, essentially, is to catalog where you used to be , where you are , and where you should be .
The better you understand your fundamental values, the better you’ll be able to change your brand to reflect them.
Start by creating a spreadsheet. List every audience interaction online and your existing brand response to it.
After taking stock of your existing brand presence, you can start gathering insight on how to improve it.
How extensive a rebrand you need will depend on whether or not you’ve achieved brand-market fit.
This is a two-sided process. You’ll have to evaluate how satisfied you are with your own brand. You’ll also have to survey the market to see if your brand resonates with your audience.
An ideal brand-market fit is when your brand speaks to both you and your clients.
But a brand that speaks only to you isn’t doing its job. You also need to evaluate how the market sees it.
The right way to do it is to survey the market - both existing and prospective clients. You want to know what your target audience thinks of when it thinks about your brand.
How you choose to do these surveys is up to you. You can create an online questionnaire with tools like SurveyMonkey or run a poll with Qualaroo . But your best insights will come from interviewing current and former clients. Interviews let you dig deep into an issue and understand it from the perspective of the client.
Positioning: Your positioning defines the space your brand occupies in the minds of your audience. It also defines how you differentiate yourself from your competitors.
The final step of the brand auditing process is to assimilate and act on your findings. You should end this step with a complete, cohesive brand, and a set of guidelines and templates for future efforts.
Start by figuring out whether you need a brand revamp. If your self-analysis and market surveys have shown that your current brand isn’t bringing in results, you might want to change it. This is a long process and beyond the scope of this article. This article by ColumnFive is a good place to start.
Once you do have a complete brand, you need to ensure that it is consistent across all channels. Refer to the spreadsheet you created earlier. Look for any gaps in your digital brand presence. Make sure that your brand is represented consistently and clearly on every client touchpoint.
The final part of the auditing process is to create a set of guidelines, templates, and defaults. This will help all current and existing employees to present your brand faithfully on every channel.
The digital brand auditing process is long and difficult. When done right, it can bring much- needed clarity and consistency to your brand. A strong brand will help you stand out from competitors, improve your marketing results, and deliver a more delightful client experience.
One way to improve your brand consistency is to create a shared document library for the entire agency. Workamajig’s project management suite will help you do just that, and more.
Because digital branding is a long-term strategy, Coello suggests that marketers put as much, if not more, emphasis on their digital branding communication as they do on their digital marketing.
Selecting social media wisely If a company is B2B, it should put most of its digital branding efforts on sites like LinkedIn. If B2C, Facebook or Pinterest would likely prove more beneficial.
You must have JavaScript enabled to enjoy a limited number of articles over the next 30 days.
Synchronized Digital Branding starts with our unique creative assets, delivered by AI at the right time and the right place. These sequential moments of engagement are enabling the world’s foremost brands to meet whatever KPIs they challenge us with. It’s a quality experience, end-to-end.
Unique, large-scale digital advertising canvases built to connect your brand with consumers.
Keeping brands ahead of tomorrow’s challenges through creative and innovation.
Buy, build, deliver, optimize, and track your digital campaigns with maximum efficiency.
Reach your audiences on any device and gauge their reaction to your message.
End-to-end digital marketing execution and support with award-winning customer service.
Working with us means working with the top brands, advertisers, and publishers in the business.
Anna’s experience in business and finance led her to work for a US risk mitigation company in Singapore. She has contributed to HR , online business , and retail content across Fit Small Business.
Here are 28 of the most effective digital branding tips from the pros.
If you want your brand to stand out, you need a hook that is both significant and meaningful to your target audience. If possible, try sticking to one very specific difference that sets you apart from the competition. This will make your brand more memorable.
Platforms like Facebook Ads and Twitter Ads are invaluable tools for content promotion. Both allow you to reach a large, highly targeted audience of people likely to respond positively to your brand. Using Facebook Ads, you can target people who like similar products and companies to your own, helping you reach a highly responsive audience. Search retargeting enables your brand to reach those who are already seeking out a certain product or service. This can be achieved in a couple of different ways. Marketers may target interest-based keywords to connect with their target via relevant interests or trait-based keywords to emphasize the unique traits of their brand.
It’s critical that your brand has a consistent personality behind it that your audience and customers can recognize and like engaging with. To establish a brand persona, you need to look inward at your company and the team and work to understand how you want to present your brand: how people should feel when interacting with it, how it looks, how it sounds, what quirks (if any) does it have and so on. Once you have identified the brand persona, everyone at the company who manages external communications needs to follow it, so it’s best to set up a branding document that explains everything your brand is and isn’t.
A good brand can make or break a company, so take your time when developing its personality.
Nowadays, creating a digital brand identity is essential for any business or professional. In my opinion, the most important factor of a digital brand is the style that I believe consists of two key points: the content and the visuals. While creating great content is the primary concern, using the right visuals to deliver it is what creates a unique style. This may sound very subjective, but I think that currently, videos are the most effective visuals. Combined with different promotion techniques, they will help you or your business to get noticed.
The most important tool for creating recognizable digital content is to protect it through federal copyright and trademark registration. In this digital age, the market is very saturated and, unfortunately, competing businesses often steal content and present it as their own. Your business will not stand out if you cannot prevent this and, to do so, it is important to register the copyright for digital content like photographs and videos. At this time, copyright registration is a prerequisite for instituting a lawsuit and for obtaining statutory damages.
As for your brand name, it is of tantamount importance to register your brand name as a federal trademark. This helps consumers to distinguish your brand from others in the marketplace as your brand accumulates goodwill and provides certain benefits, such as nationwide priority and constructive notice of your right to that mark.
Remember that your brand name is more important than your domain name, so avoid naming your business with a nonsense word to get the matching dot-com. Instead, come up with a great brand name using natural words that connect to the benefits of what you offer or to what differentiates you from your competitors. If you can’t get the matching dot-com name, that’s OK. Use a keyword after your brand name like acmewidgets.com instead of acme.com. Your customers will still be able to find you, and your brand name will be easier to remember and travel better by word of mouth and social media.
Later, when your business is hugely successful, you can purchase the matching dot-com domain name because then you’ll be able to afford it.
These design decisions will not only voice your brand in the digital world but also influence how people interact with your brand. Additionally, it’s important this is all made accessible to your team members so that in designing all your company materials, you keep your branding consistent. Everything from your company proposals to social media posts should reference your branding guide.
One of the best ways to build your digital brand also doubles as great content marketing. Just develop a list of 100-plus tips or facts about your industry, product or target market that and turn them into digital cards that reflect your brand’s visual identity, just like Water Use It Wisely’s 100+ Ways to Conserve Water or TrailBlazer SEO’s Cannabis Facts. Use a tool like Buffer to schedule them on all of your social media channels and embed them throughout your content.
Soon, your audience should start sharing them and embedding them in their content, which helps spread your brand by extension. In time, this tactic can help position your brand as an authority with minimal proactive outreach. This approach works best when your audience will want to share your content for their own reasons, which could range from personal branding to a political agenda.
My one tip for an engaging digital brand is to create community since the beginning. This means to have an email list and Facebook groups where people can interact with you. People need to know that is human beings behind the brand. The content plus the community make the brand complete, and this is the formula to get an amazing audience because they will interact with you, your content and, in the end, they will talk about you. This is the goal of any brand. How do you make people talk about your brand? Engagement, you need to talk to them and be bold, be honest, you have to be out there and share content with them, nobody is going to do it better than you.
One can even have influencers to mention your brand for free by giving freebies, getting their attention through mentions or discount codes exclusive to the influencer.
Branding requires a high level of self-actualization. It’s important to know yourself and your company. Want people to engage? Choose a channel you can produce the most organic/ natural content on and start there. Once you begin to build an engaged following, cross-pollinate with your other socials to increase your digital footprint.
When creating an online digital brand, it can be tempting to showcase only your best products and the front of the house. Remember, people buy from people, not corporations. Showcase all your wonderful projects or products and beautifully branded photos, but don’t forget that your potential customers want, especially on social media, to see the person behind all that gorgeousness. Share your triumphs and your struggles. This builds a relationship with your audience that engages them on a deeper level. Especially if you are selling luxury or luxury-adjacent goods and services, customers will be more likely to make the investment if they feel they are also investing in a person who shares their values and aesthetic.
Pushing the benefits of your product doesn’t work anymore, particularly for a younger demographic. In fact, people dislike being sold so much that it may have the opposite effect and repel your prospects. You need to build trust with people, and they will become brand advocates if you’re addressing a pain point they’re having.
There are many digital branding strategies that it’s easy to lose sight of what your business truly needs. Remember these expert tips to keep you focused on your goals and let your authenticity help you stand out from the crowd.
Anna Lynn Dizon is a staff writer for Fit Small Business, contributing to our sales, marketing, and real estate sections. Her experience in business and finance led her to work for a US risk mitigation company in its regional office in Singapore. Anna holds a degree in accountancy and is currently working towards her master’s in language and literacy education.
Furthermore, Fit Small Business never allows partners to pay us to guarantee placement within an article that isn’t clearly marked as sponsored and companies cannot pay us for favorable (or unfavorable) reviews or ratings.
Read more about our commitment to editorial independence here .
So, digital branding is not a separate thing but a combination of digital marketing and internet branding. It is a brand management tool that helps a brand create a real image on different internet venues, e.g online forums, and social media.
The following are some of the advantages of online branding.
Even though digital branding is a deep topic and might be difficult to understand for a newbie. But do it correctly, you need to do branding of all of the following elements.
2. Social Media: Creating accounts on Instagram and Facebook is the easiest way to connect with the customers. Twitter also is a great platform for people who can not write lengthy posts. It is all about micro-blogging and keeping it to the point.
The studio was created with the purpose of offering a service standard that is incomparable...
By activating Alphonso’s user-level television ad exposure data through its creative high-impact display ad formats across hundreds of high-quality publishers and mobile apps, Undertone is delivering on the promise of true personalization and full-funnel effectiveness. This innovative channel harmonization will enable marketers to gain deeper insights into the value of their TV campaigns, thanks to enhanced dashboards and reporting tools.
* Average Time Spent with Media in 2019 Has Plateaued (eMarketer, May 31 2019).
About Alphonso: Alphonso is a TV data and measurement company, and the market leader in providing brands and agencies with real-time TV ad campaign measurement, closed-loop attribution for TV ads, and TV audience extension across digital devices. Alphonso TV Data Cloud services are used by hundreds of the Fortune 500 brands and agencies in the U.S. With video AI technology embedded in tens of millions of smart TVs, TV chipsets, set-top boxes, and other connected devices, Alphonso understands what programming and advertising people watch on TV. Its SaaS offering, Alphonso Insights, delivers actionable TV measurement and closed-loop attribution with offline data in real time, to help brands understand the true impact of TV advertising. To learn more, visit www.alphonso.tv .
Thank you. You have been added to our mailing list.
This summit is for entrepreneurs, businesses, and marketing managers who are looking to increase conversions, sales, and get more customers.
Your email will only be seen by the event organizer.
Ironically, those who have studied digital marketing, digital advertising, or both use the two terms interchangeably and they do it confidently.
These are some of the questions that will be discussed in detail in this article. Once you finish reading this article, you’ll hopefully be in a position to conceptualise and use digital marketing and digital advertising to grow your business.
Let’s start by looking at the definitions of both digital marketing and digital advertising.
Wikipedia defines digital advertising as a form of marketing and advertising in which the messages are delivered to the target audience through the internet.
Chron defines digital advertising as a marketing media that is digitally displayed.
So digital advertising is simply an ad on the internet.
Here’s an example of a digital ad promoting a Golf product. You see this banner ad pretty much all over the internet because Google display is the advertising channel used. It’s purely a form of digital advertising.
The ads that you see in search results are also a type of digital advertising.
So, when you run ads online to promote your products, services, business, or create brand awareness, you’re engaging in online advertising.
When you see a suggested post on Facebook, then you’re looking at a social ad which is a form of digital ad too.
According to Wikipedia , digital marketing is an umbrella term for marketing using digital technologies.
Business Dictionary defines it as a promotion of products/services via any form of electronic media.
Dave Chaffey defined digital marketing in his book Digital Marketing: Strategy, Implementation, and Practice , as achieving marketing objectives by applying digital technologies and media.
According to HubSpot , digital marketing is any form of marketing that is done online.
In a nutshell, digital marketing is the marketing that’s done on the internet or through digital technologies. In order to fully understand digital marketing, it’s critical to understand what marketing is.
Ever heard of 4Ps of marketing ? Truth is, that’s actually what marketing is all about. It’s the process of putting the product in the right place at the right price at the right time.
When all of this is done using the internet, it transforms into digital marketing.
The following infographic puts everything about digital marketing into perspective.
This makes one thing clear, digital marketing is a broader term while digital advertising is just a part of digital marketing.
Why? Because it’s just one way to promote your products on the internet. You can use any other medium to attract leads and customers and as long as you’re seeing results, it’s absolutely fine.
Your business needs digital advertising to generate traffic which is the third stage of the digital marketing process as defined by emarkable. You can choose to generate traffic from any other tactic via a search engine (e.g., Google), social media, email marketing, press release, content marketing, etc.
Digital advertising is just one part of your marketing mix . You need it the at promotion stage to inform target audience about your products and services.
Although digital marketing is one option, you don’t necessarily have to use this form of advertising at the promotion stage to reach your target audience. ADP , for instance, used content marketing to connect and engage with their target audience.
The company didn’t use any other form of marketing. They didn’t use any ads to drive traffic and to generate sales.
So you can see that you can run a business successfully without digital advertising.
You can’t be in business without digital marketing. Better yet, if you want to cut through the noise and finally drive loyal customers to your brand, you need to market digitally.
It defines the strategy on how you’ll market your business, how you’ll define the target audience, how you’ll attract, convert, and retain customers for your business. There is a whole lot of different things that are in the mind of a digital marketer .
Evaluating digital marketing channels such as SEO, content marketing, PPC, etc.
In a broader sense, it is a complete process that runs your business on the internet.
Clearly, a business will struggle to thrive without digital marketing.
The definitions and types of digital advertising/marketing make one thing clear: digital advertising is a subset of digital marketing. It’s just one aspect of it.
When you want to market in a digital channel you need to begin with the business idea. When you share the business idea with an expert, you’re involved in marketing – not advertising.
The product idea, product creation, packaging, pricing, finding the target audience, defining marketing segments , are all the essential parts of your business marketing strategy.
Digital advertising comes into play when you use the internet to advertise your products or services or business or brands — that’s when you use one of the three types of digital advertising discussed above to promote your products or to generate traffic.
Digital advertising is one part of the digital marketing amongst several others. The purpose of all the marketing techniques is to generate traffic so you can choose any tactic that will grow your business. It could be SEO or PPC or both.
Digital marketing is a process that begins from the moment you choose the name of your business or even before that.
The process is continuous and never-ending. It starts from the market research phase and moves all the down to control and refining stage and the data from refining stage is then used again for research and to create a new marketing strategy.
In a nutshell, everything that you do online or share online is part of your business’ digital marketing process and strategy.
The McDonald’s iced fruit smoothie app is a perfect example of the digital marketing process. McDonald’s partnered with Innocent to promote its smoothies and ice cream.
Instead of creating a new app, McDonald’s partnered with apps that consumers had already downloaded. By playing a simple game, consumers win a free smoothie.
Digital advertising, on the other hand, is an activity in the entire digital marketing process. In the image above, digital advertising fits in Step 6: Promote — where the purpose is to promote the published content, product, or anything else via ads to get exposure and traffic.
A digital advertiser needs input from the digital marketer in the form of what to promote, when to promote, what the advertising budget is, etc. The marketer will then create ads to send traffic to a landing page . It’s just a tiny activity in the entire digital marketing process.
The strategy is the plan that might be complex and often involves decision-making, patterns, and several activities while the tactic is the means used to obtain the desired goal.
Digital advertising is tactical in nature. It defines how you’ll promote the product or an offer to the target audience. It has a short time frame and can be easily replicated.
For instance, you might need to run a social ad on Facebook to promote your new product in order to increase sales during Christmas. Once you achieve the desired goal, you can stop the campaign and shift to another advertising campaign or channel.
This strategy marketing plan has the potential longerity and is not easily replicated.
As compared to an advertising campaign that can show results instantly. Angela Ponsford ran a Facebook ad campaign to generate leads. She spent $507 which resulted in $1980 of revenue and collected 400 leads.
The campaign was successful and there wasn’t any long-term planning behind it. She created the ad and that’s all.
Remember an advertising campaign doesn’t impact business if it fails but a digital marketing campaign severely hurts the business if it fails.
The purpose of digital advertising is to promote the brand or generate sales. An advertisement is defined as a promotional message to sell a product. In the case of digital advertising, it is more related to traffic generation.
In all the cases, advertising is either used to promote a brand, a product or a service, or an idea.
For instance, LEGO used three documentaries to build brand awareness among mothers. They targeted mothers through Facebook ads and lifted brand awareness by 7-point.
On the other hand, marketing is used to develop a brand image and how your target audience perceives your brand when they see a logo or hear about your brand. The image is developed by digital marketing.
Again, it’s deep rooted in the strategy and can’t be achieved in a few months, it takes years. You have to develop a strategy to show your brand and its message to your target audience over and over again. This way, you’ll create an unforgetable brand.
Digital marketing is strategic in nature, therefore, a carefully-crafted strategy will help build a brand as compared to digital advertising that will only give a slight push to sales or brand awareness.
Digital marketing on the otherhand is not always intended to drive sales. Though the ultimate objective is to increase sales and maximise revenue, especially with personalised message, but the path that is used to achieve this objective is fairly different.
The first step of the digital marketing process is to understand your target audience and create buyer personas . This cannot be achieved by understanding audience psychology.
Again, digital marketing takes into account the entire target audience by developing buyer personas — while digital advertising only focuses a specific segment of the target market that can be reached via any form of ad.
The objective of digital advertising is to boost sales in short-term while the objective of digital marketing is to boost sales in long-term. The approach used is different but the ultimate goal is to increase revenue.
The approach to increasing revenue by generating sales is different. In the case of digital advertising, ads are used to drive instant sales. This results in instant sales and revenue as it happened with Jordan Schaffel who ran a PPC campaign for one hour. He spent $243 and earned $70K in sales.
Digital marketing is time-consuming and you need to set clear goals to achieve great results. It doesn’t focus on short-term sales rather the idea is to focus on business growth by focusing on building customer relationships.
Digital marketing ROI is consistent and huge as compared to that of digital advertising. Though, it may take some time before you start to see results.
Digital advertising can’t be done in isolation. The data for running an advertising campaign is provided by the digital marketing strategy such as buyer personas, campaign objective, landing page, lead magnet, core product, conversion funnel, etc.
Since digital advertising is part of the overall marketing, therefore, it has to be linked to the strategy in some way.
Digital marketing can exist without digital advertising. For instance, you can stick to content marketing and SEO for reaching your target audience. In this case, you’ll not have a digital advertising campaign but the marketing campaign will continue to work.
When these terms are used interchangeably, it gets hard to understand what you mean.
For instance, you need a digital marketing agency to help your business with growth and sales. If you don’t have a digital marketing strategy or plan in place, ask your agency to create one for you.
If you search for a digital advertising agency, they won’t help you in creating a digital marketing strategy because their job is to run and manage ads, not aid your strategy.
Imagine, you use Google to find a digital marketing agency and end up dealing with an advertising agency. You’ll waste your time.
This is what happens every day on the internet. All types of businesses contact digital marketing agencies to manage their Facebook ad campaigns and contact advertising agencies to create a customised digital marketing strategy for their business.
Every day, businesses waste a few good hours sending inquiries to wrong agencies.
This is not just related to finding an agency but using these terms interchangeably creates unneeded confusion.
It would be the biggest mistake you’ll ever make and you won’t get any other chances because doing so will result in total waste of time and money.
Imagine running a PPC campaign instead of creating a digital marketing plan first or without having a landing page. This will hurt your brand and result in huge losses.
You can use digital advertising in place of any other traffic generation technique such as SEO, SMM, content marketing, etc., but it should never replace digital marketing.
Whenever you’re running an ad campaign, keep these end-user concerns in mind and create ads in a way that they’re perceived as healthy and friendly by your target audience (more on this coming soon).
Here’s a list of reasons when you should use digital advertising.
When you need to boost ROI and increase sales, there doesn’t seem to be anything better than a digital advertising campaign.
Of course, it makes sense too. If your ads are optimised, they’re sure to increase sales and will give a decent return on every dollar spent.
Are you interested in improving your brand’s awareness? Of course you are, who isn’t?.
Digital advertising can help businesses improve brand awareness. Running a quick display PPC campaign will put your brand in front of several eyeballs.
The quality of your ad helps to create brand awareness and increase customer engagement. In a study by comScore, it was found that high-quality creative ads drive more than half of the sales. The number of sales generated in the study was 4x higher than the overall impact of the entire media plan.
While you’re busy running ad campaigns, don’t ignore the ad quality to boost sales.
In another study by IAB , the interactive mobile rising star ads received 3x greater interaction, 74% increase in brand recall, and improved brand image by 83%.
With so much that you’ve got to offer, you cannot ignore digital advertising and interactive ads at this point. Never.
Use digital advertising when you’re interested in reaching your entire audience.
The time spent on digital media like mobile and the internet has surpassed the time spent on TV, radio, and other media. Therefore, to reach a wider audience and to reach your full audience, you should run ads on the media which is mostly used by your target audience.
The average time spent on the internet daily is expected to increase and this is why digital advertising should be a MUST in your digital marketing strategy.
When you’re promoting your business through multiple types of media, using digital advertising will help in multiple ways.
This form of advertising doesn’t just boost sales and ROI for your online store, but it increases the ROI and effectiveness of non-digital channels by as much as 70%.
All you’ve got to do is add digital advertising to your media mix – it’s not rocket science.
If you’re promoting your products across multiple non-digital channels such as TV, radio, print, outdoor, etc. adding a digital advertising campaign will increase the ROI of all the non-digital campaigns.
This is one of many reasons why you should use digital advertising.
There is no point in running an online (or even an offline) business without a digital marketing strategy. If you don’t know when to use it, here are a few sure cases when nothing works better than digital marketing.
Research shows that 50% of business don’t have a digital marketing strategy while a futher 18% don’t have it integrated into the marketing strategy.
When you need something to work and need clear direction, a digital marketing strategy comes into play. It clearly defines objectives and how to achieve them.
ii) Reduce marketing cost: When you’re sick of investing heavily on TV, trade shows, telemarketing, and other traditional marketing media and things don’t seem to work, you should move to digital marketing.
Digital marketing is less expensive than all the other media channels out there. It is, therefore, the best bet not only when looking for affordable marketing channels but for startups too.
iii) Reach more people: When you plan to reach every single individual in your target audience while communicating in a language that they will understand, you need digital marketing. It helps you find and contact people that otherwise would seem impossible to reach.
An average user now spends 3x more time on social media; do product research online; and is more likely to buy if one of his friends have liked that product on Facebook.
Your business needs a digital marketing strategy to reach your target audience online. It”s mandatory. Your target audience is already using the internet, so it’s time to start using digital marketing and targeting them.
iv) Improve business performance: if you intend to improve performance , you need to define a digital marketing strategy which can also help reduce cost, reduce resource wastes, improve team productivity, and build a strong customer relationship.
A rigorous digital marketing strategy improves business performance since it integrates into marketing and business strategy. Above all, it improves customer experience.
Digital advertising and digital marketing are clearly two different but related terms. You now know what each means, how these two are different, and when each one has to be used.
Thanks for sharing this information. It’s really helpful for us. I hope you share more article like that. I think digital marketing is good for every field because digital marketing can help to increase online brand value.
I enjoyed seeing the differences and comparisons in your article. Very good.
Are you a performance artist or actor looking to build their digital brand? Congratulations, you’ve come to the right place to discover more about using Instagram, YouTube, Twitter, and more to establish yourself online and build your following.
Let’s say you’ve cut your finger and need to cover up the wound. What household product are you going to reach for? That’s right: a Band-Aid. Even if the brand of the product you’re using isn’t actually Band-Aid, you’re still going to call it that because the product’s branding is so ubiquitous that, frankly, there isn’t even another word for it in our lexicon.
Your brand is how you see and define yourself as a performer and how you ensure that others perceive you the same way.
Understanding these qualities forms the foundation for your brand. It’s your general outlook on life, and it follows you regardless of context. These qualities are true about you whether you’re on set, at your survival job, or hanging out with friends.
Step Two: How do others perceive you? This is what’s seen on the outside based on others’ experiences with you. Two simple ways to complete this task come to mind: taking an informal survey (like a quick post on Facebook or sending an email to 10–20 people in your circle) and looking at past feedback from teachers, bosses, friends, and family.
Quick favor? I’m trying to understand my personal brand and am conducting a little experiment. In the comments below (or respond to this email and) share 1–3 adjectives that describe me (the good and the bad — I can take it).
The past feedback method: Gather up any feedback you’ve gotten from your day job, co-workers, casting directors, teachers, etc. Look for the adjectives that describe how you work, your outlook, even your shortcomings, and make a list.
Step Three: What patterns do you notice? Look for the 1–2 words that continuously pop up in the feedback you receive.
Step Four: What’s your brand essence? Combine your own descriptions of yourself with the descriptions from others to define your personal brand essence . Your brand essence is your very own unique peanut butter cup. Merging others’ impressions of you and your impression of yourself creates a fuller picture of your brand.
Step Five: Does this feel like me? Now it’s time for a little self-reflection and iteration. Ask yourself if that brand essence you came up with in the previous steps sounds like you. If it does, great! You’re on the right track. But if something isn’t resonating, go back to your lists and play around with how you combine words. Sometimes it takes a few tries to get it right.
The big three when it comes to an actor’s social media presence are Twitter, Instagram, and Facebook, each of which can and should serve a different purpose.
Oscar-nominated actor Anna Kendrick, meanwhile, has also used Twitter to show off her comedy chops and was (not coincidentally) signed to write a book of essays utilizing her signature brand of humor.
Unlike Twitter and Instagram, Facebook also has ample profile options that need to be filled out with care. Here, Backstage Expert Heidi Dean breaks down the six steps all actors need to take in order to create a Facebook page worthy of their career.
This is also an ideal way to boast any musical skills you may have aside from singing; accompanying yourself on guitar or piano while you croon is a fantastic way for any CD to get a sense of the diverse skill set you may not always get to show off in the audition room.
“Hamilton” star Rory O’Malley, for example, began a show-biz podcast called “Living the Dream,” in which he shares stories of his own along with conversations with industry pals who are decidedly not of the “dream-living” realm. Emmy Award-winner Lena Dunham, meanwhile, started a podcast called “Women of the Hour,” in which she speaks with other women both in the business and completely outside of it about issues surrounding friendships, love, politics, and more.
Just as its name suggests, a marketing toolkit is a toolbox of the materials you’ll need to market yourself as an actor. Before the digital age, it was just your standard fare (headshot, résumé), but now, of course, your marketing toolkit is far more comprehensive.
Digital branding can help you get jobs by letting casting directors know who you are and what you represent before they cast you.
You can also use hashtags on Twitter and Instagram to find interesting conversations to join. When you use a #hashtag, you’re essentially joining an existing conversation. Discover the hashtags other people in the industry are using and, if you have something interesting or insightful to add, join in.
5. Listen Just like offline relationships, a meaningful conversation online involves speaking and listening. If you join a conversation, make sure to read the whole stream before piping in so you don’t comment on the last statement without understanding its context. When you disagree with someone, find ways to speak for what you believe in instead of focusing on why you’re against their views. Be sure your thoughts are insightful, positive, and not all about you. Remember: You’re establishing and nurturing relationships.
Being smart about how you professionally present yourself online is crucial.
Additionally, what you do (or don’t) post on your social media accounts can prevent you from getting a job before it’s even come your way. For example, if your Twitter feed is teeming with negativity, a casting director who may have liked your audition could sour upon seeing your page.
Limitations A strong digital brand is definitely a virtue when it comes to carving out your niche in the acting landscape. But, like many good things, it comes with a risk. Particularly when you’re starting out as an actor, reinforcing your brand through social media can be highly beneficial.
4. Find friends you already know Connect your email, phone number (on Snapchat), or other social networks to find industry contacts you’ve already made.
6. Promote your account on other networks Find creative ways to tell your audience they should join you on your other networks for exclusive content.
9. Take over an influencer’s account If you’re guest starring on TV or in an Off-Broadway or Broadway show, see if you can do an Instagram or Snapchat takeover for an influential account to gain access to their social media following.
It’s a new year, which means new challenges for digital brands.
Look for epayments to really start to take off this year. The launch of ApplePay combined with innovative social mobile marketing could go global almost overnight.
Check the visual below for 10 digital branding trends for 2015, which comes courtesy of Borenstein Group .
Evolving brands, modernizing visual identities, and creating communication strategies for the digital age.
All businesses, including accounting firms, have a brand identity, although most will not achieve the size and scope of a Coke or Disney.
Today, the Internet has changed all of that, and both offline and online branding strategies have to be considered as components of a unified whole. Digital and traditional branding are simply two different approaches to communicating with your market and target audience and telling your story.
If you – like many accounting firms – are relatively new to the concept of digital branding, it’s never too late to get started. But the longer you wait, the greater the risk that competitors with a proactive digital branding strategy will gain a greater market share.
Traditional brand-building is no longer enough to drive growth and profitability for today’s accounting firms. Digital branding is not only necessary, it’s preferred. Your current and future clients are looking at you online -- whether you choose to engage them there is up to you.
Lee W. Frederiksen, PhD, is managing partner at Hinge , a marketing firm that specializes in branding and marketing for professional services. Hinge conducts groundbreaking research into high-growth firms and offers a complete suite of services for firms that want to...
There are currently no replies, be the first to post a reply.
          architects, landscape architects, governmental agencies and non-profits to develop better environmental practices.
          compelling way. From branding to outreach and engagement to digital communications, advertising, public relations, social media and events, a5 marries strategy + creativity + account management to generate results for our clients.
Focused on creating healthy, sustainable communities, a5 works with the public and private sectors to engage in conversation, break down barriers, find common ground and work together.
John Harris is president and co-founder at a5. A writer by trade, Harris has been a reporter at Forbes (where he wrote the first national story on Starbucks), editor at Rockford Magazine and communications director at The Marmon Group.
          Waukegan Library, Friends of Richton Park Foundation, Triton College Foundation and the Garfield Park Conservatory Alliance.
          our experience to enable us to deliver strong content development, PR and social media services—in addition to our brand and digital offerings—to our clients.
As a business manager, when you think of digital branding, the first thing that comes to mind is going to digital marketing agencies. When you visit a Digital Marketing Agency, in order to give you short -term satisfaction, they do not pay attention to the quality of the work, and in the end, after a lot of bragging, provide you with several Facebook and Google advertisements, and call this branding through digital marketing.
Let me be frank, if your brand does not generate sales or expand your business, and is shown only a few times in different advertisements and platforms, you won’t have a successful brand. Therefore, you have to change or improve your branding method. If your business is new, Facebook and Google ads will be a waste of your investment. In this case, I have written many articles that I suggest you read.
SEO is undoubtedly the best way to create digital branding. Would you like to know the reason? P ay attention to this statistic; 93% of those who are about to buy a product online search for it in search engines like Google to obtain more information beforehand .
T he most important statistic you need to know is that 90% of those who search for information on the type of product or service they are looking for, haven’t decided on which site, company or brand they will buy from. Consequently, b eing on the first page of Google can give you 10 times more than i nternet ads for free .
Furthermore, without wasting thousands of francs, you can have a successful business, or at least be the best in your market.
Imagine that you own a camera store and an internet user wants to buy a camera from you , so any word or phrase they search on Google produces one of the most informative articles and best-selling products on your site. Of course, this user will trust you more compared to your competitors, and will eventually become your customer. SEO can make your brand stand out in the minds of internet users forever.
Are you tired and frustrated with dissatisfied competitors and customers, or other critics who have posted a lot of gossip about your products and brands on Google’s first page? Don’t worry, this always happens to successful businesses.
In order to prevent this from happening , SEO works its magic by removing all bad news and gossip to Google’s second and third pages and lists your articles and content at the top of Google.
For free advice, contact me. Hope to meet you at one of my workshops.
Do more with less: compromised to offer the best price/value ratio of the market.
At Digital Branding Ltd you just need to talk with one supplier for all your digital related services. These simplifies management and accounting.
Consumers today connect with brands in fundamentally new ways, often through media channels that are beyond manufacturers’ and retailers’ control. That means traditional marketing strategies must be redesigned to accord with how brand relationships have changed.
Smart marketers will study the decision journey for their products and use the insights they gain to revise strategy, media spend, and organizational roles.
Consumers today connect with brands in fundamentally new ways, often through media channels that are beyond manufacturers’ and retailers’ control. That means traditional marketing strategies must be redesigned to accord with how brand relationships have changed.
Once, a shopper would systematically winnow his brand choices to arrive at a final selection and complete his engagement by making a purchase. Now, relying heavily on digital interactions, he evaluates a shifting array of options and remains engaged with the brand through social media after a purchase.
Smart marketers will study this “consumer decision journey” for their products and use the insights they gain to revise strategy, media spend, and organizational roles.
The internet has upended how consumers engage with brands. It is transforming the economics of marketing and making obsolete many of the function’s traditional strategies and structures. For marketers, the old way of doing business is unsustainable.
In the June 2009 issue of McKinsey Quarterly, my colleague David Court and three coauthors introduced a more nuanced view of how consumers engage with brands: the “consumer decision journey” (CDJ). They developed their model from a study of the purchase decisions of nearly 20,000 consumers across five industries—automobiles, skin care, insurance, consumer electronics, and mobile telecom—and three continents. Their research revealed that far from systematically narrowing their choices, today’s consumers take a much more iterative and less reductive journey of four stages: consider, evaluate, buy, and enjoy, advocate, bond.
New research shows that rather than systematically narrowing their choices, consumers add and subtract brands from a group under consideration during an extended evaluation phase. After purchase, they often enter into an open-ended relationship with the brand, sharing their experience with it online.
Marketers often overemphasize the “consider” and “buy” stages of the journey, allocating more resources than they should to building awareness through advertising and encouraging purchase with retail promotions.
New media make the “evaluate” and “advocate” stages increasingly relevant. Marketing investments that help consumers navigate the evaluation process and then spread positive word of mouth about the brands they choose can be as important as building awareness and driving purchase.
If consumers’ bond with a brand is strong enough, they repurchase it without cycling through the earlier decision-journey stages.
The journey begins with the consumer’s top-of-mind consideration set: products or brands assembled from exposure to ads or store displays, an encounter at a friend’s house, or other stimuli. In the funnel model, the consider stage contains the largest number of brands; but today’s consumers, assaulted by media and awash in choices, often reduce the number of products they consider at the outset.
After purchase, a deeper connection begins as the consumer interacts with the product and with new online touch points. More than 60% of consumers of facial skin care products, my McKinsey colleagues found, conduct online research about the products after purchase—a touch point entirely missing from the funnel. When consumers are pleased with a purchase, they’ll advocate for it by word of mouth, creating fodder for the evaluations of others and invigorating a brand’s potential. Of course, if a consumer is disappointed by the brand, she may sever ties with it—or worse. But if the bond becomes strong enough, she’ll enter an enjoy-advocate-buy loop that skips the consider and evaluate stages entirely.
Although the basic premise of the consumer decision journey may not seem radical, its implications for marketing are profound. Two in particular stand out.
More than 60% of consumers of facial skin care products do online research about them after purchase—a touch point entirely missing from the funnel model.
The shift to a CDJ-driven strategy has three parts: understanding your consumers’ decision journey; determining which touch points are priorities and how to leverage them; and allocating resources accordingly—an undertaking that may require redefining organizational relationships and roles.
The company decided to pilot a CDJ-based approach in one business unit in a single market, to launch a major new TV model. The chief marketing officer drove the effort, engaging senior managers at the start to facilitate coordination and ensure buy-in. The corporate VP for digital marketing shifted most of his time to the pilot, assembling a team with representatives from functions across the organization, including marketing, market research, IT, and, crucially, finance. The team began with an intensive three-month market research project to develop a detailed picture of how TV consumers navigate the decision journey: what they do, what they see, and what they say.
Instead of focusing on how to allocate spending across media, marketers should target stages in the decision journey.
This costly disruption of the journey across the category made clear that the company’s new marketing strategy had to deliver an integrated experience from consider to buy and beyond. In fact, because the problem was common to the entire category, addressing it might create competitive advantage. At any rate, there was little point in winning on the other touch-point battlegrounds if this problem was left unaddressed.
The company’s analysis made clear where its marketing emphasis needed to be. For the pilot launch, spending was significantly shifted away from paid media. Marketing inserted links from its own site to retail sites that carried the brand, working with the retailers to make sure the links connected seamlessly. Most important, click-stream analysis revealed that of all the online retailers, Amazon was probably the most influential touch point for the company’s products during the evaluate stage. In collaboration with sales, which managed the relationship with Amazon, marketing created content and links to engage traffic there. To encourage buzz, it aggressively distributed positive third-party reviews online and had its traditional media direct consumers to online environments that included promotions and social experiences. To build ongoing postpurchase relationships and encourage advocacy, it developed programs that included online community initiatives, contests, and e-mail promotions. Finally, to address the inconsistent descriptions and other messaging that was dissuading potential customers at the point of purchase, the team built a new content-development and -management system to ensure rigorous consistency across all platforms.
How did the CDJ strategy work? The new TV became the top seller on Amazon.com and the company’s best performer in retail stores, far exceeding the marketers’ expectations.
For instance, Apple has eliminated jargon, aligned product descriptions, created a rich library of explanatory videos, and instituted off-line Genius Bars, all of which ensure absolute consistency, accuracy, and integration across touch points. Similarly, Nike has moved from exhorting consumers to “Just Do It” to actually helping them act on its motto—with Nike+ gear that records and transmits their workout data; global fund-raising races; and customized online training programs. Thus its customers’ engagement with the brand doesn’t necessarily begin or end with a purchase. And millions of consumers in Japan have signed up to receive mobile alerts from McDonald’s, which provide tailored messages that include discount coupons, contest opportunities, special-event invitations, and other unique, brand-specific content.
As more touch points become digital, opportunities to collect and use customer information to understand the consumer decision journey and knit together the customer experience are increasing. But in many companies IT controls the collection and management of data and the relevant budgets; and with its traditional focus on driving operational efficiency, it often lacks the strategic or financial perspective that would incline it to steer resources toward marketing goals.
More than ever, marketing data should be under marketing’s control. One global bank offers a model: It created a Digital Governance Council with representatives from all customer-facing functions. The council is led by the CMO, who articulates the strategy, and attended by the CIO, who lays out options for executing it and receives direction and funding from the council.
David C. Edelman is a global leader in digital marketing and sales at McKinsey & Company.
Every single day, more users make their first contact with your brand online. Every. Single. Day. They’re finding you via search, social media, and referral links that you forgot you posted. If you have a strong brand that was built to thrive on digital channels, this is great news! If you have a brand that’s less pliable, or maybe a brand that’s changed so much, you don’t remember what your blog posts looked like two years ago, you could be going into this battle seriously undermanned.
Once your brand has all of the assets listed above, you’re ready to shift your focus to your brand’s voice.
Once you’ve documented these three items, you can move on to scaling your brand.
The only way to make your brand scale online is by building it right the first time. It’s important that you create an authentic brand that resonates with your team . Without this, it becomes increasingly harder to get new team members to speak your brand’s language. By creating a visual identity and voice that is authentic to your brand, you make it easier for your team to buy in and for everyone representing your brand to look and sound the same.
The decision here seems simple, but a shocking number of marketers choose #2 because it saves them time and energy upfront. Don’t fall into the trap. Do it right the first time.
In the latest blockbuster acquisition in the technology world, Salesforce has signed an agreement to purchase Tableau for $15.7 billion . This is yet another massive acquisition in the industry, where the size of these deals seems to only be growing. Salesforce is not the only technology company that has accelerated its growth via acquisitions. The largest technology companies, with a few notable exceptions, have all expanded their offerings and solidified their competitive advantages via mergers and acquisitions.
Managing a unified brand amid mergers and acquisitions is a challenge, regardless of your organization’s strategy. There are many notable stories of failure and many more businesses that are still struggling to overcome this roadblock.
Salesforce has grown to be one of the largest technology companies in the world, due in no small part to acquisitions . The importance of brand unification is not lost on the tech giant. The advantage that Salesforce holds over competitors is largely because of the Salesforce Platform. All of the products that the organization sells are meant to coexist seamlessly within a single ecosystem, encouraging customers to purchase Salesforce products over those of competitors. Without flawless integration, Salesforce would lose its edge in the market.
When the technology company acquired ExactTarget in 2013, they moved quickly to rebrand it as Salesforce Marketing Cloud. The decision was a branding one, as Salesforce thrives on the notion that all of its applications are part of the larger Salesforce Platform. The reality was that it took much longer to fully integrate the two technologies. While Salesforce Marketing Cloud always played nice with the Salesforce Platform, full integration has not yet been achieved. For example, Pardot (an ExactTarget product) only became a Lightning App in mid-2018 , meaning that it is now part of the “native” Salesforce experience. For now, it provides a similar user experience to other Lightning Apps, but under the hood, Pardot is still a standalone application that is integrated, but not technically part of the Salesforce Platform. This is where the importance of branding comes into play. While more technical users can see that Pardot is not part of Sales Cloud per se, the average user wouldn’t know the difference. With some clever UX and styling, Salesforce has made Pardot feel like part of the platform, even when it doesn’t exist natively as a platform entity. This is a sample of the magic that Salesforce employs to unify its technology ecosystem and make it feel like a unified entity.
What makes a successful merger or acquisition? A study by Richard Ettenson and Jonathan Knowles revealed that there are 10 different branding strategies used in mergers and acquisitions. In reality, only 2 of these strategies are commonly used: one of the brands is folded into the other and disappears, or the two brands continue to exist independently of one another.
The study reveals that due diligence processes do a great job of evaluating tangible assets, like property and equipment. The processes also excel at evaluating some intangibles, like patents. Evaluating brand value and customer goodwill are another story entirely. In developing a branding framework for mergers and acquisitions, the authors recommend including branding in a merger or acquisition strategy. After all, the author’s assert, 80% of the S&P 500’s value comes from intangible assets. The study emphasizes that the 10 strategies commonly used can be grouped into four categories. Let’s quickly review these categories.
Best of both is also a common merger strategy, where the two brands become a new, merged entity. Think of Molson and Coors becoming Molson Coors as an example. This merger strategy is a proclamation to employees and investors of “combined corporate strength and enhanced competencies.” By maintaining multiple brands under a conglomerate, organizations can maximize market share. While Salesforce often rebrands its acquired entities, it still employs this strategy by leveraging new technologies to expand market share in the business and marketing technology world. So what do you lose under this approach? The authors indicate a lack of integration and loss of differentiation. By maintaining separate brands under the conglomerate, it becomes more difficult to capitalize on synergies, as eBay discovered when acquiring a wildly differently technology in Skype.
This strategy is certainly the most resource-intensive of the bunch, but it delivers a strong message to investors and employees. This method is frequently used to deliver a new vision, whether a global expansion or a new business model. When Bell Atlantic merged with Nynex in 2000 and formed Verizon, the new brand name was meant to signal a new direction, linking vertical integration and the horizon. This is also possibly the riskiest of approaches. By launching a new brand, organizations sometimes “discard” the existing brand equity held with customers, employees and investors. For this reason, organizations have to be certain that the new brand will be more valuable than those that are merged.
This quote has new meaning in the digital marketing world, as it’s really a reminder that you must understand and know your audience intimately. Otherwise, you’re not relevant to them. And treating them like they are stupid, which is often the result of a condescending tone, certainly isn’t going to find you any favor.
Digital marketing creates and requires data. But just having data isn’t going to change anything. Data must be accurate and have context to be actionable.
No matter the product or service you provide, there is a great chance that it’s a commodity, or at the least, you have many comparable competitors. Thus, differentiation has to take another route. That route is content . When your brand tells a great story, consumers begin to trust and like you. That emotional response is key to conversion in the modern marketing world.
This quote supports the idea that for marketing to work, it must be interesting. Don’t be the interruption to what someone wants to consume, be consumable instead.
Google ranks your content based on the actions of others. It doesn’t reward you simply because you are using popular keywords. It is much more interested in seeing that users read, share, and engage with your content.
Consumers need to trust you. Trust comes from relationships and how your brand has treated others. Without this trust, it’s nearly impossible to make meaningful conversions.
Content should be a journey. It should hit users at all the stages: awareness, consideration, and decision. If your content doesn’t continue to inform and be relevant, users will get turned off. A pipeline is only as good as the quality and readiness of leads.
Content is the key to revenue. It’s the most important thing you create to develop relationships. Without it, you’re just throwing darts at a moving target.
Does your brand have a voice? What are the attributes of your voice. Authenticity should be one of those. Without authenticity, your brand’s voice won’t ring true to audiences.
Content marketing is not a one and done. It’s a constant factor in everything you do in digital marketing. Never treat content marketing like it’s not an integral part of your digital marketing plan.
The “why” of your brand matters a lot more than your features and benefits. If your “why” is compelling, users will stick around to learn more.
Email still has a great role in digital marketing, but you’ve got to bring value to inboxes, not noise. Understanding what users respond to allows you to get better with every email.
Don’t just create content to create it. There needs to be a goal. What action do you want users to take after reading? With goals for your content, it’s rather meaningless.
One of the few certainties in digital marketing is change. So, you can’t become complacent. But you also should count out previous successes. It’s a test and learn world.
It’s very narrow minded to think on the campaign level. Think holistically about growth prepares you to continue to evolve your marketing to fuel growth.
Metrics do matter, but there is a lot of confusion on which ones. Gathering numbers just to “keep score” is fruitless tactic. Look at numbers, and learn from them. Any meaningful metrics will drive action.
In modern business, regardless of industry, a successful company focuses on innovation and telling the stories of that innovation. Everything else is simply the result of these actions.
Speaking to a potential customer is using their time. Approaching with respect for that fact will put you in a better position from the beginning of any interaction.
Making strong choices requires having the utmost confidence in your decisions. Being open to criticism and ready to change on the fly will keep those choices working.
These 30 digital marketing quotes offer great insight into the current state of digital marketing and beyond. When thinking about your strategies and tactics for the New Year, keep these quotes in mind, as they may help you stay on course, facilitate new ways of thinking, and be the solution to your audience’s challenges.
Your brand platform acts as your brand’s, and your organization’s North Star. It ensures your team and your partners are all rowing in the same direction by developing and defining your brand purpose, brand vision, brand personality, brand values, brand promise and distinct brand positioning.
Naming a company or product can be an intensive and extensive process, filled with subjective opinions and emotions. Sometimes the magical name happens quickly, but often it takes many options and many rounds to find that perfect, unique, trademarkable fit.
Brand messaging is the art of taking the behind-the-scenes strategic language and translating it into something poetic enough for public eyes and ears. And in this case, it is the poetry of distillation and simplicity that makes for brilliance in a Performance Brand.
Whether you call them brand lines, taglines, rallying cries, positioning lines, organizational lines or big ideas, distilling a brand purpose, promise and position into a succinct, inspiring line or idea has never been more important. A strong brand line can act as a brand’s unifying force across disparate digital marketing channels, allowing for companies to leverage the distinct strengths of these various channels while maintaining a consistent thought, always making it clear what a brand stands for.
A logo cannot, and should not, deliver a brand’s entire message. And it can’t be known at a glance without massive amounts of marketing investment. But it can convey a personality, help enhance a feeling of connection and begin to tell a brand’s story. Your brand strategy and personality will often dictate whether your brand calls for a simple wordmark or lettermark logo, a more conceptual icon mark, an emblem mark or a combination.
While you want the sky to be the limit for your Performance Brand, there has to be a limit to the way your digital brand identity is used. With brand guidelines, your company will be set up for success with some firm yet flexible guardrails. What to do and not do with your logo, tone of voice, fonts, iconography, primary and secondary color palettes and more. Consider this a “rules of encouragement” book that inspires the best use of your brand identity.
Whether your site is designed to deliver information or drive commerce, Noble’s brand services can help convey your brand position, promise and personality through its written, graphic and video content. This is your most valuable owned digital asset and should be a living, breathing personification of your brand platform. The same is true of all your digital platforms.
Find out how Noble Studios can help with your digital brand strategy.
Brose is the world’s fourth-largest family-owned automotive supplier. The mechatronic systems for doors, seats or electric motors and drives can be found in every second new vehicle around the world today. About 26,000 employees work for Brose at 63 locations in 23 countries and generate 6.3 billion euros in turnover.
Digital Branding is about using digital channels to communicate a brand’s positioning (or purpose) as part of multichannel brand communication or engagement programmes.
By choosing this category you'll have the opportunity to design a brand strategy for a real case study given by Brose.
This is the chance to be our guests in Milan to pitch in front of the jury and take part in the winner announcement event on July 3rd. All the details will be communicated via e-mail to the finalist team.
The team will be our guest in Milan on July 3rd at the Reply Xchange and will present thier idea in front of the jury competing with the finalist teams from the other categories.
If you have questions or want to learn more about the competition, have a look at the FAQs and the Rules or write to challenges@reply.com .
Head of Brand Experience and Design at Triplesense Reply, from Germany.
Event professionals are faced with the enormous challenge of keeping their audience engaged online during their virtual events.
Event professionals are faced with the enormous challenge of keeping their audience engaged online during their virtual events.
Event planners are always looking for innovative ways to brand their event. At the same time sponsorship is changing and the age of paying for logos to be printed on a banner is no longer sufficient to warrant a investment from most sponsors. Digital branding options can be more flexible and customizable than other alternatives, which opens the door for creativity.
Traditional event branding such as logo placement on banners, signs, bunting, etc. can of course benefit from digital channels when attendees push pictures of these to the digital space where monitored engagement takes place. Offering your sponsors a package combining traditional and digital branding could be an attractive proposition.
Digital branding opportunities are not necessary more or less expensive than other alternatives but there are two ways they are always superior to the traditional.
One way digital branding opportunities will always have an advantage over traditional ways are increased ways to gather empirical data for sponsors. The ability to analyze actual impressions and (more importantly) brand engagement gives brands much more in return for their investment. Without strategy or digital opportunities, you are exclusively offering an antiquated vanity of displaying a logo, with no possibility of effective measurement. When you do that, you are no longer speaking the language of the modern marketer… and you’re going to lose them.
Here are 11 ideas for incorporating digital branding into your event.
Hashtags provide you the most value for sponsorship because they don’t cost a dime to create. While that’s true, you don’t own them exclusively and without an investment in time and resources, no one will know about them. Still, strategies around hashtags should be an important first step when you are formulating the plans for your event.
The official event hashtag is where your attendees will gather online to discuss every aspect of their experiences before, during, and after the event. It is very difficult to incorporate a sponsor into the hashtag itself. It’s an enticing opportunity to be sure but it would more than likely result in a drop in overall engagement around the hashtag because of confusion. For your sponsors to get the most value from the official hashtag, they should be made aware of the hashtag as early as possible in order to include it in their messaging and to give them an opportunity to engage organically with attendees before, during and after the event.
Nine times out of ten it doesn’t make sense for sponsors or trade show exhibitors to create a unique hashtag exclusively for their appearance at an event. If they have an ongoing campaign and participating in the event is part of that campaign, by all means they should use the hashtag they’ve been using. The one time of out ten where creating and promoting a hashtag exclusively for an appearance at event is when a sponsor has an activity taking place for attendees that is so special that it is like an event within an event. Examples of this might be contests with significant prizes , guest appearance by a celebrity at the booth or sponsor area, or a give-away of an exclusive branded item. If what you are presenting is a significant enough of an occurrence that people will naturally want to have a conversation about, you might have a case to create a special hashtag.
One of the most prominent examples of digital engagement during live events are social media walls. Often during events, eyeballs are locked on this area as it hopefully complements and adds to the overall experience. While anyone can contribute to the content on the screen, there are often static banners associated with the designs of these displays that allow a sponsor logo or tagline to be visible at all times. This type of logo placement is more impactful than banner inclusion because it’s in a position adjacent to where attendees are anticipating value to be given. In addition to this type of sponsorship, many of the technologies that run these displays include the ability to integrate sponsor messages that either fit in seamlessly with the crowd-sourced content or pops a bit more by design.
Conference Apps are constant companions and attendees are often dependent on them during the days they are attending an event. Each section within the app is an opportunity for sponsorship and the more aligned with the section that sponsor’s services or campaign is, the more beneficial the relationship can be.
There is almost always a way to include some form of gamification into an event of any size. Be it something as formal as a scavenger hunt, a trade show check-off list, a social media leaderboard or something as simple as giveaways from the stage, games equal engagement.
The secret to successful gamification sponsorship is through dialog with potential sponsors on ways to facilitate their unique messaging. If they are actively engaged in a specific campaign, taking a part the name of their campaign to reverse engineer a game around it is actually easier than it sounds.
If your potential sponsor isn’t engaged in a thematic campaign, this actually gives you an opportunity to help them develop one which would kick-off at your event. When designing a challenge for attendees, the most important consideration is that it's easy to understand and fun, but for the sponsorship activation to work they have to also know why what they are doing is related to the sponsor.
For many, this is the only view they will have for your event. Why then are too many live streaming portals bare of sponsor logos? Often these live streaming opportunities are at no cost to those watching which makes their threshold for accepting sponsor messages all that much higher. Depending on the live streaming provider you are using, there should be a number of different ways sponsor messaging can be present. If you are using social media mobile live streaming for your event the opportunities are currently less robust but both Facebook Live and Periscope are working on ways to integrate interruption messaging into live streamed broadcasts.
While digital displays can easily fall into the same traps as printed banner logo inclusion, multimedia options entice more than one sense thus are more engaging. Short video clips, use of gifs or looped video can result in something considerably more enticing to attendees to pause and look at. Digital screens also offer the ability to be more timely and helpful with your messaging. If the software running the screens can display scheduled content at specific points in the day, messaging can tie into scheduled events such as lunch, keynote presentations or activities. Sponsor inclusion on digital screens is never nearly as effective if it doesn’t take advantage of what makes the medium special.
Snapchat allows anyone to submit designs to be an optional filter for users at a given time and place for a fairly reasonable fee. There are limits on these designs including the surface area it take up on a photo, no calls to action, and no photo imagery but the ROI right now is high because it’s so inexpensive (as little as $5.00).
Always keep in mind the state of the attendees when participating in photo activation when sponsors are involved. The effects of alcohol have a way of changing the context of photos and the tie-in with a sponsor’s reputation.
Ad placement, sponsored content, or even video content will help build a campaign of awareness culminating in the activation at the event. In addition, event producers can offer a remarketing option for sponsors as a way to increase the likelihood of conversion. For exhibitors and sponsors, this is your chance to separate yourself from the rest of the contributors by creating a FOMO moment that attendees are actively searching to take advantage of as soon as they hit the floor.
Some multi-day and multi-track conferences have embraced the value of niche content and included proprietary information as part of the attendee package. Gone are the days of giant workbooks and binders attendees lugged around; branded USB drives attached to lanyards can be loaded with any amount of content. The most valuable content comes in the form of peer submitted standard operating procedures  and tools or presenter created content that supplements their presentation. These tool kits are an excellent place for photo and video examples of the latest trends. Including sponsor and exhibitor content in the form of tools and contact information integrates them further into the needs of your attendees.
Yet I will argue that chasing engagement can cause marketers to make exactly the wrong investment decisions. Too often, they end up moving dollars diametrically away from the places they are working best.
If you’re very lucky, perhaps one in five people won’t skip your video ad, one in 30 will expand your banner, one in 300 will click through and one in five of those clickers will spend some quality time with your site. Chasing engagements means basing your investment decisions on the behavior of a tiny, unrepresentative minority. It is ironic that many of those who rightly spurn click rates as a brand metric then rely on site engagement as a brand campaign diagnostic. But most people who engage with site content will have clicked to get there.
Engagements are expensive. When you cut a cost-per-engagement (CPE) deal, you pass on risk to publishers and they naturally price it in. If you work back what your CPE media costs in eCPM terms, you might think again. You also pay the price in terms of control, usually losing control of reach, frequency and even audience targeting, all of which are the critical fundamentals of brand marketing. Publishers need to earn a crust, so they will serve what makes them the most money, not what carries the message most effectively.
I am not suggesting that engagement is worthless. All other things being equal, I would much prefer that people spend time with my brand than not. My point is only that fixating on engagement risks doing more harm than good.
It’s all about order: Optimize in the same sequence as the potential of your metrics to make a difference. This will ensure that you hone in on performance each time while never allowing one metric to lead you astray at the expense of anything more fundamental.
Brand safety: An ad served in a bad place can destroy value.
Viewability/fraud: An ad that’s never seen by a human can’t add value.
Audience composition: An ad that’s seen by the right human has a better chance of working.
Reach/frequency: Two sides of the same coin; ads are more effective and efficient when seen the right number of times by the right number of humans.
Engagement: Once all of these boxes are checked, go ahead and optimize toward engagement. Just don’t compromise the first five metrics in the pursuit of No. 6.
This isn’t rocket science. You could probably accuse me of an overly elaborate restatement of old-school marketing basics. If you have good creative, you should be able to place your trust in it. Think about getting the right message in front of the right people in a manner they will notice and a frequency that is appropriate before you think about reacting to the behavior of an engaged minority.
None of the above is a substitute for proper brand measurement. These are stepping stones that help keep us on track or make more granular decisions than brand studies can support.
This story is neatest at the very top of the funnel. Brand awareness can only grow among audiences that haven’t heard of you. It gets fuzzier in the middle, where gains in persuasion, relevance, feature awareness and the like can happen even among brand advocates.
Epik Solutions is a Business Transformation company centered on Digital Transformation around four technology themes-Cloud, Analytics & AI, Customer Experience Management and Digital 2.0.
Branding is not just about Connecting Digitally but Creating an Omnichannel Customer Engagement Strategy.
Leading companies around the world are now viewing their technology as an extensible platform that touches customers and partners directly. Digital self-service innovations, such as artificial intelligence (AI) and bots, can help you easily assist customers whenever they step into your environment. Through these technologies, you maintain expectations and create lasting bonds by allowing customers to get what they need, when they need it.
Account-based marketing strategies help you connect with the right decision-makers at the decision-making stage of a purchase by engaging them in conversation. This methodology leads to meaningful interactions that set the right tone for your relationships. It helps you understand your customers and provide them with the ideal , most relevant solutions, at a time when they are ready to act.
This solution monitors your customer’s usage and provides you with strategic insights to guide how you market to them. The data your monitoring reveals is analyzed for behavioral insights to connect with individuals and groups at the times they are most receptive to your brand and your message. Aside from management to inform potential improvements, the entire process is automatic, a time-saving game-changer for marketing initiatives.
Consumers and B2B buyers are more aware and demanding than ever. They expect brands not only to be visible but also to understand their needs and engage them in meaningful interactions. In the 2020s, acquiring new customers requires a strategic approach that showcases your brand, products, and operations through next-generation means. A holistic integration of advanced analytics, cogent insights, impactful automation, and clever creativity can help you to acquire users who would otherwise pass you by.
Content-based strategy is all about storytelling and providing highly relevant information rather than pitching your products or services. This strategic marketing approach focuses on consistently crafting and distributing valuable content to attract and retain a clearly defined audience. By helping people enjoy their customer experiences while solving their challenges, you create brand loyalty and uncover opportunities that are unavailable through other means.
that spans media, strategy, digital, data consulting, social media and workforce transformation.
A collection of internal project and initiatives under the BASIC® brand.
Ongoing partnership providing strategy, branding, experience design, and development focused on bringing their mission and offerings to consumers through brand-led programs and platforms.
Helping the world’s leading peer-to-peer hospitality company with creative vision, experience strategy, and execution in partnership with various departments and divisions internally at Airbnb.
A co-creation partnership with our teams working side by side through shared responsibilities to reimagine the digital shopping experiences for Herman Miller, Design Within Reach, and Hay.
Karen Cinnamon is a freelance Digital & Branding Designer at Cinnamon Creative , based in London. In 2011 she was named as Xchangeteam’s freelancer of the year in the advertising & design category. Here she shines a light on a typical day in her working life.
If you’re looking for a new challenge in this area then be sure to check out the range of design jobs on Econsultancy’s job site .
I help brands big and small stand out and connect better with their audiences. It’s my job to clearly highlight what makes each of my clients (be they a product, organisation or individual) different to, and more desirable than, anyone else.
I am lucky enough to run my own freelance business so in essence it’s my clients that I report to. They are the people I want to dazzle – if my clients are happy I gain repeat business, recommendations to their network, and a great sense of satisfaction on a personal level.
Additionally you need to be an ‘ideas generator’ and be able to think unconventionally or from a new perspective, as in the creative world the obvious choices are not necessarily the most effective. Think of the unbelievably successful ‘Compare The Meerkat’ campaign as an example.
Being freelance, there really isn’t a typical working day as clients span small-start ups (for whom I work for from home) to large multi-nationals where I work as part of a wider team in their head office, or that of their design / advertising agency.
You can be sure that every day will involve a fair amount of time designing on a Mac or sketchpad, dealing with clients, be it face-to-face or digitally, and finding time to be inspired whether it’s going to a lecture, an exhibition, flicking through my design books, catching up on the latest news and campaigns on Twitter and Creative Review, or reading about emerging trends on Econsultancy or Trendwatching. Often some networking and business development are on the agenda too.
My biggest goals are pleasing my clients beyond their expectations and gaining exciting new clients, some of whom I have admired in the digital space for years such as Tesco, M&S, and Burberry. That’s a buzz. My KPIs are gaining repeat business and recommendations of work, and of course seeing turnover or exposure increase for a client as a result of my digital and branding work for their business.
On a day-to-day level, my Macbook Pro, Adobe Creative Suite, marker pens and sketchbook are my tools, hand in hand with the internet, design books and magazines for inspiration. On a larger scale, it’s an open mind – whether it’s being open to new avenues, new thinking, new suggestions, new approaches, experiencing change, even making mistakes. An open mind enriches my work.
Having said that, I am lucky enough to have really super clients, many of whom have become good friends, and in the end I’m usually able to persuade them to my point of view… so it’s really ok.
Burberry delivers exceptional digital experiences. It never rests on its laurels and is constantly innovating. Old Spice did what everyone working in social media wants to do and got everybody talking about it. ASOS is the most entrepreneurial e-tailer in the digital space and has extraordinary customer service and user experiences, as do John Lewis and Amazon.
A new startup offering customized Facebook applications for those of us without programming skills.
If you’re a regular user of Google+ (and if you aren’t, here’s some good reasons you should be), then you may have seen a few unusual posts popping up on your feed today.
Si Crowhurst, VP of Creative Labs at Vungle, a mobile advertising and app monetization company. He tells us how his average day and the broader business has been impacted by the pandemic.
Jenn Larry, president of CBDStrategy Group, offers tips on establishing digital relationships with your audience, sharing information online responsibly and more. Part three of a three-part series.
Digital branding and marketing can pose countless challenges for cannabis companies—especially in Canada where restrictions on advertising are particularly strict—but there are ways to succeed in the digital space, according to Jenn Larry, president of CBDStrategy Group , a Canadian marketing and communications firm.
The use of mobile applications is continuing to evolve as the industry develops, Larry says, and apps may become critical in establishing digital relationships with your patients and consumers.
“Once people onboard themselves with licensed producers—whether it be for their medical profiles or their usage … —I think applications will be an interesting way to ensure privacy, database compliance, information sharing, storage and distribution,” she says.
“[Companies should be] thinking about setting up those relationships in the digital space and what they could mean from a contract standpoint and the law,” she says.
“It is possible that moving forward, things like Instagram—which, anybody can follow you—will become challenging,” she says.
Companies need to approach social media with a defined strategy and a clear target audience, she adds.
The total fan capacity in cubic feet per minute for this circulation pattern should equal one-fourth of the greenhouse volume, according to the text “Greenhouse Engineering,” a Cooperative Extension publication by Robert A. Aldrich and John W. Bartok, Jr. Ideally, these fans should be integrated into your control system so that they shut off when the ventilation fans are cooling the room. Otherwise, they will create turbulence that will disrupt the parallel flow across the greenhouse, reducing the cooling efficiency.
2. Circulation air velocity should be a minimum of 50 feet per minute (fpm). At the very least, you should see some flutter in your leaves at their maximum height and density.
To read the full article in the April 2018 print issue of Cannabis Business Times, click here .
The move issues stark contrast against the Coalition and Labor, which support a medical cannabis program.
The Greens have proposed full legalisation of cannabis – including for recreational use – with a new government agency to act as the single wholesaler of plain-packaged cannabis.
The policy is the first time a party with significant federal representation has backed full legalisation, providing a point of difference with the Coalition and Labor, which both support a scheme initiated in 2016 to legalise cannabis for medicinal use only .
Trump says he will support congressional efforts to protect states that have legalized marijuana.
In January, the Colorado Republican said he would block all DOJ nominations after Attorney General Jeff Sessions issued a memo that heightened the prospect of a federal marijuana crackdown in states that had legalized the substance. Gardner’s home state made recreational marijuana legal in 2014.
“Since the campaign, President Trump has consistently supported states’ rights to decide for themselves how best to approach marijuana,” Gardner said Friday.
Digital branding relies on consistency. From your product descriptions to your customer service responses, the customer should receive your branded experience. Digital branding goes far beyond sticking your logo on everything.
Making a positive first impression is the most important part of creating a good customer journey. Your efforts to continue that experience through the course of their buying journey are important, but will be useless without the hook of that initial good impression.
I’m going to take you through some digital branding trends that are currently making real impact. Test them out for yourself. These trends will help to keep your brand relevant in the digital space through 2019.
Stories of hacked accounts and online scams only seem to be getting more regular. It’s more important than ever to reassure your customer base that you’re a legitimate business.
A clear privacy policy is essential. Include what you intend to do with any personal data collected.
Potential customers are constantly looking for any signs of dishonesty. Anything you can do to reassure customers at the beginning will lead to a more enjoyable buying experience for them, and more sales for you.
Fake news floods Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram. There are endless articles with click bait headlines and ads stating “free product worth $20” when in reality $20 is added to the shipping costs that remain hidden until the last minute.
This noise has trained users to be increasingly unresponsive to anything they deem too good to be true. It has also turned customers towards trusting individuals over faceless brands.
Successful brands have taken notice, and are implementing digital branding and marketing tactics that emphasise the human aspect of their brand.
They speak to customers like friends instead of clients, responding to their messages with enthusiasm and kindness.
You must be prepared to deliver exactly what your customers expect based on what your offer promised.
Be honest about what you’re providing. Don’t hide any details when telling customers what you need from them or what they should expect.
With social feeds being so noisy, it takes a lot more than a product image and a few emojis to make your offer stand out.
This is how most social media influencers build huge followings and market their offers at the same time.
Selfish Mother publish articles their target market of mothers can relate to, often written by bloggers who will further the brand’s reach through their own following. In addition to this, founder Molly Gunn often shares unfiltered shots of herself, her family and her travels. Sharing topical and engaging content gets high interaction for the brand, and behind the scenes shots of the business and it’s founder only make the brand seem more genuine and transparent. People don’t feel they are buying from Selfish Mother, they feel they are buying with them. When Selfish Mother post new products, they often sell out in days.
Nasty Gal are a fashion brand that built a social media following of millions, and so definitely have lots of lessons to share. Out of the 12 posts in the shot below, only 4 direct customers to buy. Most posts are quotes and memes that their target market enjoy and like to share.
Both of these brands are doing the same thing. Using in depth knowledge of their buyers to create banks of content they know will attract them to follow.
Most of the consumers you’re going to reach are searching for a product to help them solve an issue or improve an area of their life.
Returning customers are easier to convert than new prospects. Brand awareness removes most of the hesitation a buyer has when purchasing a new item, and knowledge about the product can help solidify their “need” to acquire it.
In the past year alone, Facebook Group membership is up 40% reaching 1.4 billion people . More than half of Facebook’s massive user base now use groups every month. Of those, 200 million people belong to so-called “meaningful Groups,” considered a vital part of users’ daily lives. Mark Zuckerberg has said he’d like to see 1 billion users in “meaningful” groups within five years. With business page reach dropping and Mark Zuckerberg himself championing groups, it’s probably time for all businesses to look at opening their own groups.
Starting a Facebook group allows your brand to establish itself as an authority in your niche. A community can be spread across social media, but Facebook groups provide great homes for communities.
Giving customers a place that they can exchange information and tips on how to better use your product creates a community—a family hosted by your brand name.
The one thing that all the best examples of digital branding have in common is that they never stand still. The ever changing environment online means brands that fail to change, quickly die.
Trust your knowledge of your niche, trust your gut, and above anything else – trust your customers. They will tell you what they want. You just need to ask, listen and change.
Take what you’ve learned here and build your brand into the caring and knowledgeable brand you know it to be. Customers will appreciate the extra effort and repay you for doing so.
Let’s discuss your project and try to find the best solution for your needs.
To learn more about Colibri Digital Marketing’s digital branding service, please read the testimonials provided below.
Grow your business with the Colibri Digital Marketing Charm Branding package. From $15,000.
Establishing a brand’s look and feel is key, which is why True works closely with our graphic designers to create a brand story for companies. While planning initial campaigns and tactics, True works with designers to concept and brainstorm several ideas and concepts so that the visual fits the brand and company.
You must have heard the name Digital Branding multiple times, still curious to know what exactly it is.
Internet and technology have gone through a number of evolutions and with it, arises a number of opportunities in the marketing sector.
As per stats, for every $1 spent on Digital Ads, businesses get an avg. of $2 ROI.
Digital marketing has also gone through a number of evolutions for the last few years and it has become more effective and more versatile.
By now you must have got an idea about it, digital branding is simply using digital devices for branding purpose; using digital media and technology to promote brands. This is done by communicating through the audience directly through digital means or say digital devices that they possess.
These days brands are using digital devices to communicate with their audiences and for their promotional purposes.
You will have to understand the need to differentiate products and services in order to influence your customers.
Since these are the basic questions in your online marketing journey, so unless and until you are clear with them, you can’t expect digital branding to do wonders for your business.
If you are clear with these questions you can expect your brand to grow in long term.
While focusing on brand’s promotion you should actually try to look for long term goals rather than short term. These factors will actually decide the direction of your business and what will be the essential elements of your business and about resource allocation and a number of other basic kinds of stuff.
(i) A reputation that can help your brand to stand out of the herd and audience can recognize your brand as the most trusted one.
You will have to make your customer to purchase from you and to do that you will have to target their mindset; here comes the role of ‘Positioning’, you do it in your customer’s mind. If you want to sell your product/service then you will have to first influence your targeted customers.
A lot of brands use emotional strategies to drive their targeted customers in a zone to make their purchase; Cadbury’s inspire moments of joy is one of the best examples to that.
(i) If your brand can influence the customer with its story? Your brand must have a compelling story that you can use while making communications with your targeted customers and then only you will be able to leave an impact on your targeted customer’s mind.
Try to understand the essence of this line and you will be a lot more clear about digital branding strategies.
There is no doubt that the introduction of digitalization in any business is really important and especially if you are serious about its growth (which you should be).
Digital communication is basically a very effective tool that can help in building brands and enhancing them.
(i) It helps in increasing the trust of customers and make your brand a credible one.
(iii) It becomes a medium where you can write quality and information-rich content.
With the arrival of ‘digitalization’ in this brand build-up journey it has become really easy for the brands to communicate with their targeted audience. T.V. is a great source to that, they can easily communicate with a large number of audience with just minimal efforts.
Digital channels actually provide brands with multiple ways to communicate with their targeted audience. In this way, they can also increase their credibility in a very effective manner.
(d) It helps in the creation of a brand-building platform.
Wise people say this; put your customer at the centre of each and everything you do. Your customer is your main target and you will have to focus on them entirely. There are multiple methods these days through which you can provide your customer with a great brand experience.
The consumer-centric approach will actually help in enhancing the user experience. To do that first of all you will have to focus on your communications with the targeted customer.
So, the consumer-centric approach is really important when it comes to online reputation management , building your brand and developing your business.
Eventually, whatever you do, your targeted customers will decide if your brand is going to propel or not hence focus on them and target mainly on them.
Digital branding is a great medium to promote your business.
Actually, your brand can reach unbelievable heights if you are able to do digital branding appropriately. Basically, an integrated approach is a key. Digital branding services will help you if you use them wisely.
Your main aim should be to enhance the user experience of your targeted customers and this will eventually help in building your brand.
If you are able to build a kind of trust in your customers means you are on the right track.
Want to know how digital branding can help your business? Share your business details in the comments and our experts will guide you in the process.
When I started thinking about writing an article about branding, I did some research about the topic and I was shocked to see the result that appeared on the Google SERP. An article which was written 17 years ago is showing up in the first position (probably the author of that article hadn’t heard about digital branding at that time).
I did a deep research on the page. On the year 2000, the internet archive had not yet started. So I took the screenshot of the page in November 2003 (the first crawl on that page).
Branding is the process of establishing awareness and brand identity to the average customer. When a customer sees your logo or hears about your brand, your product /service should come to their minds.That’s how efficient branding should be.
A brand comprises of identity, value, loyalty, awareness, and perception. It’s more than just a logo. It is the emotion or message that people understand when they think about your company.
“A brand is what people say about you when you are not in the room” – Jeff Bezos, CEO of Amazon.
“Your brand name is only as good as reputation” – Richard Branson, Founder of Virgin Group.
Grassroot marketing is the method of promoting your business to a small audience and hoping that your message will spread to a larger audience eventually. This is a simple technique that every company can do without spending much money. But creative ideas are a more important in this.
Tech Talent South is an online educational portal which teaches computer coding in different languages. They host free hands-on workshops on coding for parents and children at some schools. They got some parents who are interested in learning to code as their paid customers.
GreenPal is a grass lawn maintenance company. They collected a list of their customers who have dogs and sent them a piece of bone with a thank you card. People responded with good reviews that converted into new business leads in near future.
Infusionsoft is a famous small business CRM provider. They created a small point on the boarding points of a railway-station to engage the participation of the audience. Providing a spot on the platform for kissing their loved ones goodbye created curiosity. They also promoted this venture through Instagram, Snapchat, and other social media channels.
There are a lot of social media channels around us. It’s about choosing the right platforms to reach your audience (of course, Facebook will come to your mind because it had just crossed 2 billion active users in June 2017).
Each social media channel is defined for a particular purpose and using it on a proper way to get the maximum reach is totally in your hands.
Before setting up a branding campaign, you should collect the details about your target audience, including age, gender, their interests, devices they use, the area they reside, and frequency of usage are important. There are gold mines hidden inside your audience, go and dig them out.
All you have to do is spend some money and use proper retargeting and remarketing techniques until you get strong customer base in social media.
Branding is key, no doubt. But I do believe the most important element of branding is SEO. It gives your brand the ultimate trust factor when you see it up there on Google and other search engines.
The internet has taken the business world by storm and this has made it very important to implement an excellent digital branding strategy.
Heck, it’s taken the entire world by storm. It’s the biggest technological leap society has taken since the television was invented. And just like how the television took over society, so too is the internet thoroughly entrenched in our daily lives.
‘Okay,’ you say, ‘but I do brand myself online. I have a Facebook page for my business…’ That’s not even close to enough. In fact, it’s barely a start.
That’s not saying that social media isn’t an incredibly valuable branding resource. The problem is that it’s just one aspect of a larger system.
You can simply write articles, or you could be more ambitious. Other opportunities include video, podcasts and infographics. The choice is yours.
A Facebook page (on its own) is not a sufficient online presence. People tend to spend a lot of their time on a variety of social platforms, so it makes sense to be active on more than one social media channel.
In this day and age, people don’t want to be advertised to. They see through the old-style advertising that has been used for decades. Rather, they expect a transaction – even in the marketing process. You’ve got to give them a reason to interact with your brand.
There are a variety of ways to get your brand out there. Some are easier than others and cost less (or even no) money. You need to balance these advertising types based upon your brand size, market, and needs.
Although SEO is free, you should probably consider paying an agency or at least employing a SEO specialist to deal with your SEO. This is because the actual process of implementing SEO is more difficult than it sounds, and they’ve got lots of experience in navigating through the various nooks and crannies of optimisation.
A solid brand premise is crucial before you start any other branding activities.
Your brand premise is the area within your market that you look to own. For example, in the vehicle industry, you may want to own the luxury car market, the eco-friendly market, or the safety market. It’s not about what you offer; it’s about what your offerings can do for your customers.
Now that you know what you want your brand to target, you need to know who you’re targeting. Use tools like Google Analytics and Google Keywords Planner to see who is viewing your content, and what people are searching for around your brand premise. You can also use more traditional means like questionnaires and interviews to get qualitative information about your target audience.
A catchy, relevant slogan can build your brand’s identity. Brands like Nike and McDonalds use slogans that appeal to the experience that their customers can get when using their products.
This is the most important thing about creating a slogans, and one of the most important things in branding as a whole: it’s not about the offering, it’s about the experience.
Your tone of voice sets the scene for your brand identity. If you talk in a casual, colloquial tone, it could build a brand personality of relatability and relevance. If you use a more formal, measured tone, you may give off an air of exclusivity and luxury. Choose your tone wisely with your target audience in mind.
Now that you understand how who you’re communicating with and how to communicate with them, it’s time to take your brand and concretise it with brand design.
Perhaps the most crucial aspect of your brand design efforts is consistency. If your digital branding isn’t consistent across all of your platforms, you’re not going to be able to achieve optimal customer loyalty and trust.
Don’t forget that it is incredibly important that you also keep brand design consistency across your digital and physical branding efforts. If you’ve developed a consistent digital brand design, but it’s different to your physical branding, you’re still going to lose trustworthiness and loyalty.
Let’s go through the four listed design areas in a bit more detail.
There are a variety of logo types that you can choose from. Some of the more popular options are icon logos, word mark logos, and combinations of the two. The way you style your logo should also work with your brand image – if you’re a luxury brand, you want something subtle yet classy, whereas if you’re targeting children, you will be looking to design something more colourful and animated.
Once you’ve set up your various platforms and designed your digital branding image, you’re going to want digital marketing assets that you can use to build upon these assets. There are a wide variety of digital marketing assets to choose from, and some are more necessary than others. Let’s look at a few of them.
Once you’ve set up your social media accounts, you’ll need banners to put at the top of your page.
The trick here is to design one good banner, and then rework it to fit the various dimension requirements of the different social media platforms. This is to maintain consistency across your social media platforms.
Your social media banner is an obvious place to insert your logo and create a visual that represents your brand image. Doing this allows you to push your brand identity into the minds of those who view your social media accounts.
A good landing page targets one specific intention within the scope of your digital brand identity.
For example, your home page is a landing page, and the intention is to host your special offers, latest content, or whatever is important to your particular brand.
Another example of a landing page is a lead magnet page. If you offer a free piece of content in exchange for an email address, you could (and should) create a landing page that focuses upon this value offering.
These landing pages allow you to add your brand’s specific flavour to any and all of your offerings. If you’re a casual, playful brand, you can use your bold colours and colloquial language to market your lead magnet, whereas if you’re a B2B brand, you can post important information that sets you apart in a concise yet thorough manner.
All of these great branding ideas need to be formalised somewhere.
To avoid this, write it all down in a comprehensive document. This document will include every single possible branding idea that you’ve concocted.
Don’t forget to disperse this document to anyone and everyone who is a part of your digital marketing efforts so that they all follow the same branding blueprint.
For anyone interested in being active, these are incredibly interesting pieces of content. They have a solid understanding of who they’re targeting and design their content towards this group of people.
Their logo and colour choices are bright and eye-catching, furthering the active, exciting brand that they’ve built. Their imagery is centered around people doing exciting things, and their fonts are modern and bold.
All of this works together to consistently put forward a clear brand image about Red Bull: They are a vibrant brand that is passionate about getting active and doing crazy, extreme things. Their digital branding efforts have resulted in people immediately associating their brand with this positive idea and has forged them into arguably the dominant energy drink brand in the world.
Nike’s brand is centered around motivation and inspiration. The idea is that, using Nike’s products, you can achieve your goals and improve yourself.
Even their logo, the tick, works with their digital branding efforts to highlight the brand’s focus on achievement and reinforcing one’s capabilities.
Finally, let’s look at Apple’s digital branding. They promote themselves as a fashionable, innovative tech brand. Their digital branding efforts are clearly based around this brand premise.
The imagery itself is also simple – highlighting the beauty of the devices, rather than trying to include lifestyle imagery.
This is likely a publicity stunt in its own right, appealing to alternative, fashionable people who enjoy the hipster idea of shunning social media. This is an aggressive marketing idea and would not work for almost any other brand in the world. But it highlights their appeal towards eclectic, fashionable people.
In this Digital Era it is really simple for people to spread their thoughts and reach to various people. If it has become easy for the people to reach other people than it has probably become easy for businesses too.
Thus, here making a smart move many businesses are using the Digital Platforms for their Branding and Brand Communication to the consumers which is ultimately known as Digital Branding.
According to wikipedia, Digital Branding is a brand management technique that uses a combination of Internet Branding & Digital Marketing.
Then what exactly is Digital Branding? Let’s find out together.
Definition : Approach of Leveraging the Digital Platforms and internet to build or manage your brand identity and making the brand communication with the audience is known as Digital Branding .
Building your brand using various Digital platforms is known as Digital Branding.
Digital Branding and Digital Marketing are two sides of the same coin, which means they are totally Different but always co-exists.
Simple thing! Marketing is what you do, Branding is what you are. Elaborating it, Digital Marketing focuses more on promoting your product or services that you provide and Digital Branding focuses on who you are and what you stand for with one similarity that is both is done via Digital Platforms.
The end goal of Digital Marketing is to sell, while that of Digital Branding is to leave an essence of yours to the consumers.
Digital Branding focuses on values while digital marketing focuses on attracting people and selling them services or products.
Digital branding focuses on building personality and reputation while digital marketing focuses more on strategies to increase revenue.
In short Digital Branding is not used only for the sole reason of Driving sales now-a-days.
Digital branding is used to enhance the awareness amongst the market and audience, make an image and style of the brand and use these things to bring a long term customer loyalty.
Ohh great you are still here, let’s have a look at the heart, sole, hands, legs, nose and every element of Digital Branding.
Some tangible things like Brand Gap and Brand Experience might be missing in this because of some limitations of using Digital Platforms in Digital Branding.
Let us Discuss these elements one by one at a glance.
A brand of course is said when some bunch of people can identify it by hearing its name or seeing its logo or typography or any other element.
Digitally it boils down to the logo and colours that presents the identity of a brand. A brand logo should be clearly recognisable and should represent a particular brand.
As soon as you are a Brand, your logo don’t need to tell that what your company does or provides. People know themselves that what you stands for. For example the best branded company till date ‘Apple’ don’t have any single representation of its products or services in its logo.
On the other side you can still recognise it because of its elegance, while if you are going to provide too much detailing in your logo about your services, people will fail to notice it and might cannot recognise it.
Also colours plays an important part in creating a Brand Identity. Colour of your logo should properly align with your brand identity and your work. You can get an overview of which colour represents in below image.
And also in this thing, you need to focus on Quantity equally to the quality because wider your business is present, more your brand will be recognised.
Thus make sure that you build and maintain a goodwill across the digital platforms wherever there is your presence. It is really going to help you make an impact.
In-order to occupy a distinctive place in mind of a target marketing you need to find two things.
The first obvious thing is the Target Market, because it’s there in the definition. Just joking, not because it is in the definition but it is really important to define the target market.
I was on holiday and to my all good luck I stayed in a 5-star resort.
I think it can accommodate more 10-12 rooms of good enough size in the area of lobby.
To my curiosity I asked the manager at the resort that why so much space if left empty for a lobby which almost no-one uses.
This teaches how important it is to show exhibits even if people are not going to use it.
The brand equity of your company in Digital Branding is defined by what kind of influence you have over how many people.
Brand Communication is how the brand communicate with its stake holders and showcase its values.
L istening : Listening to the response and feedback to your offering.
Coming to Brand Differentiation, it is all about how you can differentiate your Brand in all the ways.
Let us move to the final elements of Digital Branding and that is Brand Extension.
Brand Extension is basically a way to encourage new products under an already existing Brand Name to take the advantage of its brand equity.
For Ex : Nike was originally selling the shoes but after that they introduced sunglass, garments, bags and a lot more.
Talking about Brand Extension in Digital Branding, you need to first mine a niche and showcase your company as an expert of any one of your service or a market leader in any one of your product.
After that comes the interesting part, it is a lot easier to divert people from one thing to another digitally.
You can also use methods like Collaboration and affiliates for extending your brand or use someone’s else’s brand name for benefit of your own.
Hey You are a great reader man, you are still here.
Do one thing, grab a glass of water and stick at one place now because the most awaited part is finally here.
Digital things are trending and so does Digital Branding. There are a lot of benefits which you can take and use Digital Branding to help your business become a brand in 2020.
Here are some of those proven and tried ways to help your business with Digital Branding.
Offline is good for things like Brand Extension, but Digital Branding is better in aspects of reaching out and channels.
When people look at your offline visuals for Branding like your hoardings, visuals, outlets, they cannot carry them away to show to other beings.
Also many digital platforms provides paid features for promotions which are really cheap when compared with that of traditional channels of promotion.
Might some people have spectacles and cannot see your branded advertisements on road. Might someone can have so they won’t get out of their home for few days. May be there is a pandemic condition like Corona Virus.
In all this things there are chances that your branding campaign cannot reach to your estimated target audience. But everyone does have mobile phones and they are inseparable from their life.
Digital Branding gives you the advantage of Mobile Optimization which is one of the best advantage of Digital Branding.
Do you had ever seen an image and cried? I guess 99% of you had not cried latest after seeing an image or a photo in their life. But had you ever seen a movie or a video and cried? This time 99% of you might had cried.
If you talk about video, it is not possible to showcase a video with help of any digital platform. Thus videos gives you an upper hand when it comes to connecting to the people which is very essential things in Branding.
I really appreciate that you had completed reading the whole blog and if you really liked the blog and you think it added some value to your life don’t forget to share it.
Also you can check more amazing content on our Social Media Handles.
Digipple also provides some creative and outstanding Digital Branding services , to learn more about that you can click here.
Stay tuned for more updates or visit to digipple.com for more blogs.
